# Efficient GPU-based Electromagnetic Transient Simulation for Power Systems with Thread-oriented Transformation and Automatic Code Generation

YANKAN SONG$^1$, YING CHEN$^1$, (Member, IEEE), SHAOWEI HUANG$^1$, (Member, IEEE), YIN XU$^2$, (Member, IEEE), ZHITONG YU$^3$, AND WEI XUE$^4$, (Member, IEEE)

$^1$ Dept. of Electrical Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing, 100084, China. (e-mail: huangsw@mail.tsinghua.edu.cn)
$^2$ School of Electrical Engineering, Beijing Jiaotong University, Beijing, 100044, China. (e-mail: xuyin@bjtu.edu.cn)
$^3$ Energy Internet Research Institute, Tsinghua University, Chengdu, 610213, China. (e-mail: yuzhitong@cloudpss.net)
$^4$ Dept. of Computer Science and Technology, Tsinghua University, Beijing, 100084, China. (e-mail: xuewei@tsinghua.edu.cn)

Corresponding author: Shaowei Huang (e-mail: huangsw@mail.tsinghua.edu.cn).

This work was supported in part by the National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant No. 51607100, No. 91530323, and SGCC Research Project WBS. 5455HJ180004.

**ABSTRACT** Electromagnetic transients (EMT) simulation is the most accurate and intensive computation for power systems. Past research has shown the potential of accelerating such simulations using graphics processing units (GPUs). In this paper, an efficient GPU-based parallel EMT simulator is designed. Thread-oriented model transformations are first proposed for the electrical and control systems. Following the transformations, the electrical system is represented by connected networks of massive primitive electrical elements, the computations of which can be constructed as massive fused multiply-add operations and solutions to a linear equation. The control systems are represented by a layered directed acyclic graph with primitive control elements that can be dealt with using SIMT groups. Finally, code automation tools are designed to form the GPU kernels. Compared with past work, the proposed model transformations improve the degree of parallelism. Most importantly, the code automation tools improve computational efficiency by substantially reducing addressing and memory access, and render the implementation of the algorithm more general and convenient. Test systems of different sizes were created by connecting multiple IEEE 33-bus distribution systems and adding distributed generators. Simulations were performed on NVIDIA’s K20x and P100 cards. The results indicate that the proposed method significantly accelerates EMT simulations compared with a CPU-based program. Real-time performance was also achieved under certain conditions.

**INDEX TERMS** Electromagnetic Transients Simulation, EMTP, GPU, Parallel Computing, Power System

## I. INTRODUCTION
Electromagnetic transients (EMT) simulation [1] is the most accurate tool to describe the fast dynamics of power systems. The widely used EMT simulation algorithm, also known as the EMTP-type program, has been rapidly developed in last few decades, and has been applied to several simulation software, e.g., ATP-EMTP [2] and PSCAD [3]. However, with the rapid development of smart grid technologies, complicated devices such as power electronic converters (PECs) and distributed energy resources (DERs), advanced controls are integrated into power systems. Such integration converts the grid into a large-scale, strongly coupled system. Consequently, EMT simulations for such systems are time consuming. This restricts fast simulation-based applications, such as real-time control strategy validations and closed-loop simulations. A considerable amount of research has been invested in building parallel computing-based EMTP-type programs using state-of-the-art multi-core processors [4], PC clusters [5], and other heterogeneous platforms. These parallel simulations are implemented mainly by network partitionings [6], [7], and [8] that simulate different subsystems on computing devices. However, the above parallel techniques are coarse-grained ones, with limited degrees of parallelism inside each partition.

In recent years, owing to the insurmountable conflicts between increase in clock speed and heat removal [9], it has become challenging to maintain enhancements in the performance of CPUs at pace with that predicted by Moore’s law. Growth in computing capability relies on many-core heterogeneous devices, such as graphics processing units (GPUs). The GPU was originally designed for image processing. Since NVIDIA developed the Compute Unified Device Architecture (CUDA) [10], [11], and [12], GPUs have been used for general-purpose scientific computing in many areas, such as biology, geology, and deep learning [13] [14].

In the area of power system simulations, the GPU was first
* A thread-oriented normalized transformation is proposed to represent the electrical system as composed of a network with only primitive electrical elements, the calculations of which are basic fused multiply-add (FMA) operations, with the same instructions and equal amounts of computation for each threads. Therefore, such transformation can further improve the degree of parallelism (DOP) of the electrical system without increasing computations.
* Code automation tools are designed to generate the kernels for both the electrical system and the control system according to a case study at runtime. Such tools