# Multi-scale and Frequency-dependent Modeling of Electric Power Transmission Lines
Hua Ye and Kai Strunz

**Abstract**—A frequency-dependent transmission line model for multi-scale simulation of diverse transients over a wide range of frequencies is developed, implemented, and validated. It makes use of the concept of frequency-adaptive simulation of transients in which the Fourier spectra are adaptively shifted in the frequency domain to reduce the discretization time-steps in the time domain. The transients are modeled through dynamic phasors comprising the real and imaginary parts of analytic signals to facilitate the frequency-shifting. In the proposed line model, all mathematical operations such as numerical recursive convolutions are therefore expressed in terms of analytic signals. A modal decomposition is performed to attain decoupled modes for the multi-phase case. The transition from the representation of electromagnetic traveling waves with time-steps below the wave propagation time to the tracking of slower electromechanical transients at time-steps above the wave propagation time is achieved by the automatic insertion of a $\pi$-segment to represent the galvanic coupling within one time-step. Accurate and efficient simulation of both electromagnetic and electromechanical transients within a simulation run is so supported. The validation is verified through comparison with a staged field test covering the diverse transients of line energization, transient recovery voltage, and steady state.

**Index Terms**—Analytic signal, dynamic phasor, electromagnetic transients, electromagnetic transients program (EMTP), electromechanical transients, frequency dependence, multi-scale modeling, power system modeling, power system simulation, transmission line modeling.

## I. INTRODUCTION
Simulation algorithms of the electromagnetic transients program (EMTP) [1] process instantaneous signals to sample natural waveforms at small time-step sizes that are typically of the order of microseconds [2]. The theoretically possible maximum time step size is given by the Nyquist step size $\tau_{\text{Ny}} = 1/(2f)$ with $f$ giving the maximum frequency of interest in the simulation. Taking into account the accuracy of numerical integration, a maximum time step size of $\tau_{\text{max}} = 1/(10f)$ was recommended in [3], thus generally $f \tau \ll 1$ is necessary to accurately compute electromagnetic transients. The computational efficiency of the simulation can be improved if the Fourier spectra of the natural waveforms are concentrated around a carrier frequency $f_c$. In this case, a larger time-step size in tracking of waveforms with Fourier spectra closely centered about $f_c$ is possible, making the simulation more efficient. The derivations of [5] demonstrate that the error made in approximating capacitances and inductances is even equal to zero at the carrier frequency $f_c$.

Multi-scale modeling combines the virtues of simulation in the time domain as in EMTP and dynamic phasor calculus [5], [6]. When high-frequency transients are of interest, then the multi-scale simulation processes instantaneous signals just like EMTP. For low-frequency transients, however, the multi-scale simulation processes dynamic phasors. It is this flexibility that allows to cover diverse transients with just one set of models that makes multi-scale modeling relevant. The efficiency of the multi-scale modeling also makes it an interesting candidate for real-time simulation [7]. Multi-scale models of power system components covering lumped-parameter elements, transformers, synchronous machinery, and transmission lines were developed in [8]–[10]. Recent research has turned to the development of advanced machine models [11], [12].

A transmission line model for multi-scale simulation was developed in [8], but the latter does not account for frequency dependence of parameters [13]. While the improvement of frequency-dependent line modeling for EMTP simulation is still an active topic of research [14]–[18], the work performed for this paper resulted in the first frequency-dependent line model for multi-scale simulation of an overhead transmission line. It supports the integrative simulation of diverse transients from the steady state to high frequencies with the potential of varying discretization time step sizes over a wide range of frequencies. The contributions made in this context are threefold. Firstly, shiftable analytic signals are proposed for processing the numerical recursive calculations that are essential for developing frequency-dependent line models in the time domain. Secondly, a multi-scale and frequency-dependent multi-phase line model is created to support accurate and efficient simulation of both electromagnetic and electromechanical transients as well as seamless transitions between