# Nested Fast and Simultaneous Solution for Time-Domain Simulation of Integrative Power-Electric and Electronic Systems
Kai Strunz and Eric Carlson

The authors are with the Department of Electrical Engineering, SESAME Laboratory, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195-2500 USA (e-mail: strunz@ee.washington.edu).

**Abstract—** As power electronics are increasingly used in power-electric networks, there is an interest in the creation of time-domain simulation techniques that can model the diversity of the integrative power-electric and electronic system while achieving high accuracy and computational speed. In the proposed method, generation of electric network equivalents (GENE), this is supported through the nested structure of the overall simulation process. One or multiple parent simulations, in which the unknown voltages are calculated using nodal analysis, launch multiple child simulations concerned with diakoptic subdivisions of the system under study. The interfaces for information exchange between parent and child levels are designed to provide encapsulation. This makes the subdivisions appearing from outside in the form of network branches compatible with the nodal analysis approach. It also facilitates the use of diverse solution methods for different child simulations, as it is shown for the simultaneous solution of equations formulated with nodal analysis and state space methods. Computational efficiency is obtained through the coordinated application of sparse-matrix methods, piecewise linear approximation of nonlinear characteristics, and precalculation of operations pertaining to recurring power-electronic switch statuses. The resulting overall solution process is simultaneous, distributed, and suitable for real-time simulation. The devised methodology is validated through simulation of the CIGRE HVdc benchmark model, comprising ac networks, twelve-pulse power-electronic converter stations, harmonic filters, and dc transmission.

**Index Terms—** Algorithms, circuit simulation, cosimulation, diakoptics, electromagnetic transients program (EMTP), HVdc transmission, modeling, numerical methods, parallel processing, power electronics, power system simulation, real-time systems, sparse-matrix techniques.

## I. INTRODUCTION

An important field of application for the simulators of the Electromagnetic Transients Program (EMTP) type [1] is the time-domain study of integrative power-electric and electronic systems. Examples of timely interest include simulations of storage and compensation systems [2], [3]; distributed generation (DG) [4], [5]; all-electric ship power systems; and high-voltage direct current (HVdc) systems [6]–[8]. The interfacing of the power-electronic converters and networks can be made through disconnection and prediction of the common voltages and currents as shown in [6]. The time step must be small enough for the prediction to be accurate and to obtain numerical stability. Numerical stability can generally be enhanced by using an iterative scheme such as the compensation method [7] at the expense of an increased computational burden.

If no disconnections are made, then all couplings of lumped elements that exist in reality are retained in the models. This offers the possibility of designing a noniterative simultaneous solution [9] and is consistent with the objectives of this work. The method generation of electric network equivalents (GENE), proposed here, is centered on a noniterative simultaneous solution. It is to provide computational efficiency and accuracy while offering the flexibility of using locally diverse solution methods and retaining compatibility with existing simulation drivers based on nodal analysis, such as the EMTP. The computational efficiency envisaged is to be high enough to achieve at least real-time speed for the simulation of the CIGRE HVdc benchmark system on off-the-shelf PCs.

To avoid computationally expensive iterations, nonlinear device characteristics as those of power-electronic switches are here modeled through piecewise linear approximation as, for example, discussed in [10]. For the emulation of switching processes, methods for the fast noniterative simulation of switching, as described in [2], [11]–[13], are suitable. These methods have already been tested for real-time simulation.

To obtain an efficient simultaneous solution, different options have been considered. Popular schemes for the efficient simultaneous solution of a linear equation system $Ax = b$ with the vector of unknown and dependent variables $x$ are based on the exploitation of the given system topology that is mirrored through matrix $A$. The topology of many networks is such that the corresponding nodal admittance matrix contains a significant number of zero elements. Methods aimed at retaining this sparsity by reducing the number of nonzero fill-in elements generated in the factorized lower and upper triangular matrices obtained through LU factorization do exist. The minimum degree algorithm presented in [14] achieves this while considering the overall system as a single piece, hereafter referred to as a single-piece method. In conjunction, sparse-matrix structures that only store the nonzero elements are important [15].

As opposed to a single-piece method, tearing, also known as diakoptics, is a multipiece method that enables a simultaneous solution. One possible approach to tearing, the so-called node tearing [15], leads to adopt the bordered block diagonal form as shown in Fig. 1, where symbol indicates a subdivision. It is an advantage of this formulation that part of the local solutions corresponding to the $N$ pieces of subdivisions of $A$ may be calculated in parallel. Then, the connections between the subdivisions through border matrices $B_1$, $B_2$, and $B_3$ are taken into account to get the overall solution. Of particular interest is the intersection netwo

**Fig. 1.** From left to right: partitioned form of $Ax = b$, blocks of $A$ along the diagonal.