# Parallel Electromagnetic Transients Simulation with Shared Memory Architecture Computers
Shengtao Fan, Member, IEEE, Hui Ding, Member, IEEE, Anuradha Kariyawasam, Student Member, IEEE, and Aniruddha M. Gole, Fellow, IEEE

Shengtao Fan, Hui Ding, Anuradha Kariyawasam and Aniruddha M. Gole are with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB R3T 5V6 Canada (e-mail: shengtaofan@gmail.com; umhvdc@gmail.com; kariyawasam83@gmail.com; ani_gole@umanitoba.ca).

**Abstract**-- This paper proposes a graph based matrix level partitioning methodology for parallel electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation. By partitioning the graph associated with the admittance matrix, an efficient bordered block diagonal (BBD) matrix form is obtained, which is particularly suitable for parallel implementation. Even without the presence of distributed transmission lines, fully automatic system partitioning and parallelization of the simulation are achieved. The parallelized algorithm is implemented on a shared memory computer and assessed using two scalable test cases. The first involves an underground cable with many distributed parameter cascaded sections. The second is an interconnection of multiple instances of the IEEE 14 bus system, where only lumped transmission line models are used. The tests show that EMT simulation can be significantly accelerated. The scalability is tested with up to 64 cores.

**Index Terms**-- Bordered block diagonal, electromagnetic transient simulation, LU factorization, graph based partitioning, parallel processing

## I. INTRODUCTION
Electromagnetic Transient (EMT) simulation has become a fundamental tool in the design, operation and analysis of modern power systems. Application scenarios include transient simulations of large-scale power systems such as FACTS and HVDC systems [1], microgrids, shipboard power systems [2], cross-bonded cable systems [3] and so on. Such simulations require significant computer time. Traditional speedup approaches such as increasing clock speed or exploiting instruction-level parallelism (ILP) have now saturated. However, new trends in processor development have made multi-core processors commonplace, and thread level parallelism (TLP) has become a method of choice to increase a system's overall performance [4]. Therefore, it is necessary to investigate efficient approaches for parallel EMT simulation to fully utilize existing computer technology.

To parallelize EMT simulations, many attempts have been made for system decomposition. One commonly used approach uses the natural decoupling introduced by traveling wave propagation on transmission lines [5]. If the travel time exceeds the time-step, the two sides are computationally decoupled and hence paralelizabe, as one side cannot affect the other in the same time step. However this technique becomes difficult for simulation cases with no transmission lines or very short transmission lines (or cables) such as shipboard systems, microgrids or systems with dense power electronic clusters, where the small travel time may demand an unreasonably small time step. One approximate solution is to introduce artificial transmission lines (‘stubs’ lines) with travel times greater than one time step to implement the partition [6]. Alternatively other approximate approaches intentionally introduce a one time step delay to decouple portions of a network. Information is exchanged between the decoupled portions using controlled voltage and current sources [7]. However, the one time step delay can lead to inaccuracy or even numerical instability. To overcome these difficulties, the concept of diakoptics [8]-[11] and related methods [12]-[15] have been proposed. These do not rely on any natural parallelism such as travel times. Instead, parallelism is identified by analyzing the structure of the network. In diakoptics, the full network is reduced to a sparse interconnection of several subsystems with internal nodes collapsed. Due to this collapse, the solution of this network only involves a much smaller number of nodes. Once this network is solved, the terminal node solution of each collapsed subsystem becomes available, from which its internal node voltages can be obtained independently, i.e., in parallel. However, existing diakoptics type methods are circuit based and partitions are performed on the original electrical network. Although this has the merits of clear physical interpretation, fully automating the process is challenging and usually involves some amount of user intervention [15].

In this paper, a new fully automated methodology of partitioning and parallelization is proposed. To facilitate automation, instead of performing system partitioning at the network level, the proposed method uses a graph based approach to directly partition the admittance matrix into a bordered block diagonal (BBD) form. The resulting BBD matrix is further factored into a LU product, with blocked L and U matrices. As the diagonal blocks are only loosely coupled with each other through the boundary nodes, the method is particularly suitable for coarse-grain parallel implementation [16]-[19].

Additionally, the implementation uses a multiple instruction multiple data (MIMD) shared-memory architecture in which explicit instructions for data exchange between