# Partial refactorization based machine modeling techniques for electromagnetic transients
U. Karaagac, Member, J. Mahseredjian, Fellow, I. Kocar, Member, G. Soykan, Member, O. Saad, Member

**Abstract—** Electromagnetic transient type (EMT-type) programs solve nodal analysis (NA) or modified-augmented-nodal-analysis (MANA) formulation based power system network equations (PSNE). The PSNE coefficient matrix can be either constant or time-varying depending on the utilized synchronous machine (SM) model. Therefore, a computational efficiency comparison for the SM models requires accounting for the refactorization scheme and the utilized sparse matrix solver (SMS). In addition, MANA formulation does not require or force admittance model usage and enables flexibility while representing the SMs in PSNE. This paper compares computational performances of various SM models for a practical case and accounts for the refactorization scheme, the utilized SMS and the SM representation in MANA formulation.

**Index Terms—** Electromagnetic transients, modified-augmented-nodal-analysis (MANA), synchronous machine, partial refactorization, sparse matrix solver

### TABLE OF ACRONYMS
| Acronym | Definition |
|---|---|
| AMD | Approximate minimum degree ordering |
| BTF | Block triangular form |
| COLAMD | Column approximate minimum degree ordering |
| EMT | Electromagnetic transient |
| EMTP | Electromagnetic transients program (EMTP-RV) |
| MANA | Modified-augmented-nodal-analysis |
| MANA-C | MANA formulation with machine thevenin equivalents |
| MANA-T | MANA formulation with machine complete electrical equations |
| MMD | Multiple minimum degree ordering |
| NA | Nodal analysis |
| NE | Norton equivalent |
| PD | Phase domain |
| PSNE | Power system network equations |
| SM | Synchronous machine |
| SMS | Sparse matrix solver |
| TE | Thevenin equivalent |
| VBR | Voltage behind reactance |

## I. INTRODUCTION
The nodal analysis (NA) formulation based power system network model has been widely used in Electromagnetic transient type (EMT-type) programs. Despite its formulation system network equations (PSNE) in NA formulation becomes variable rank to model the ideal switch operations. In addition, direct representation of the branch relations and the devices with voltage and current relations is not possible. These limitations can be eliminated using the modified-augmented-nodal-analysis (MANA) formulation [1]-[3] and that is why this paper is based on MANA formulation.

In both NA and MANA formulations, the PSNE coefficient matrix is sparse and the solution of PSNE is based on sparse matrix methods and LU factorization [4].

In both NA and MANA formulations, the synchronous machines (SMs) are modeled separately from network equations and require a special interface. A common approach is to interface the SM models with PSNE by using Norton equivalent (NE) circuits. The NE circuits of the SMs are calculated and inserted into PSNE by modifying the network admittance matrix and the vector of history current sources. Following the PSNE solution, electrical and mechanical variables of the SMs are calculated using the SM terminal voltages.

The classical dq0 model [5] of SM is widely used in the computation of EMTs, and interfaced with PSNE using a Thevenin prediction-based circuit equivalent [6]-[10]. This model uses a constant admittance matrix and offers the best computational speed.

In the phase-domain (PD) [11]-[13] and voltage-behind-reactance (VBR) [14][15] model structures, the stator circuit is represented in phase coordinates and directly included within PSNE. These approaches improve numerical accuracy and stability [7]-[10], [15], [16]. However, due to time varying inductances of these models, it is necessary to update and refactor the PSNE at each solution time point and so causing significant computational speed deterioration.

The recent SM models, proposed in [8] (PD-dq0 model) and [10] (VBR-dq0 model) are obtained by applying Park’s transformation to the discretized equations of PD and VBR models, respectively. These models maintain the precisions of