## Abstract: ALBI Score Prognostic Value in HCC
score was calculated with baseline values of albumin and bilirubin from a measurement immediately before the start of sorafenib treatment. Prognostic value of ALBI grade in terms of progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) was evaluated using Kaplan-Meier and Cox regression survival analysis. OS was calculated based on the starting date of sorafenib treatment.

### Results
Thirty-eight patients were included, 36 (94.7%) were male, and median age was 67.5 years ranging from 51 to 82. BCLC staging at diagnosis was A in 3 (7.9%) patients, B in 16 (42.1%) and C in 19 (50.0%); a total of 12 (31.6%) patients had been submitted to locoregional treatment prior to sorafenib treatment. Calculated ALBI score was grade 1 in 21 (55.3%) patients, grade 2 in 17 (44.7%) and no patients were graded as 3. In the overall population, with a median follow-up of 7 months, median PFS and OS were 5 and 9 months respectively. The group with ALBI grade 1 presented a longer median PFS (9 vs 3 months, $HR=0.34$, $95\% \text{ CI } [0.16-0.71]$, $p=0.01$) and a longer median OS (12 vs 5 months, $HR=0.36$, $95\% \text{ CI } [0.17-0.76]$, $p=0.01$) when compared with group with ALBI grade 2.

### Conclusion
In our cohort, ALBI score was able to stratify patients with HCC Child-Pugh A in two different prognostic groups, since a lower grade at baseline was predictive of longer PFS and OS. Given that HCC prognosis is related to both disease extent and liver function, our results, although limited by a small study population, further consolidate ALBI’s role in measuring liver function and predicting survival.

### References
[1] Johnson, PJ; Berhane, S; Kagebayashi, C; et al. Assessment of liver function in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma: a new evidence-based approach-the ALBI grade. J Clin Oncol. 2015 Feb 20;33(6):550-8.

Legal entity responsible for the study: The authors.
Funding: Has not received any funding.
Disclosure: The presenting author has declared no conflicts of interest.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2020.04.117

## P-37 Phase II Study of Oxaliplatin-Based Regimen in Relapsed Colon Cancer Patients Treated with Oxaliplatin-Based Adjuvant Chemotherapy: INSPIRE Study
**Authors:** M. Kotaka$^1$, K. Ishibashi$^2$, H. Satake$^3$, Y. Tsuji$^4$, M. Kataoka$^5$, M. Nakamura$^6$, N. Nagata$^7$, J. Sakamoto$^8$, K. Oba$^9$, H. Mishima$^{10}$
**Affiliations:** $^1$Sano Hospital, Kobe, Japan; $^2$Saitama Medical Center, Saitama Medical University, Kawagoe, Japan; $^3$Department of Medical Oncology, Kobe City Medical Center General Hospital, Kobe, Japan; $^4$Department of Medical Oncology, Tonan Hospital, Sapporo, Japan; $^5$National Hospital Organization Nagoya Medical Center, Nagoya, Japan; $^6$Aizawa Hospital, Matsumoto, Japan; $^7$Kitakyusyshuu General Hospital, Kitakyushu, Japan; $^8$Tokai Central Hospital, Kakamigahara, Japan; $^9$The University of Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Japan; $^{10}$Aichi Medical University, Nagakute, Japan

### Background
Efficacy and safety of oxaliplatin re-introduction as first-line treatment for relapse after adjuvant chemotherapy including oxaliplatin have not been well established. The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of first-line chemotherapy with re-introduction of oxaliplatin more than 6 months after adjuvant chemotherapy including oxaliplatin.

### Methods
This study was a single-arm, multicenter, phase II study to evaluate efficacy and safety of treatment of physician’s choice for patients (pts) with stage II / III colon cancer with neuropathies less than grade 1 who relapsed more than 6 months after adjuvant chemotherapy including oxaliplatin. Eligible pts were treated with infusional 5-fluorouracil, leucovorin and oxaliplatin (FOLFOX) plus molecularly targeted agents or capecitabine and oxaliplatin (CAPOX) plus bevacizumab (BV) or S-1 and oxaliplatin (SOX) plus BV. The primary endpoint was progression-free survival (PFS) and secondary endpoints were overall survival (OS), response rate (RR) and toxicity. The threshold median PFS was defined as 7 months, and the expected PFS was set at 10.5 months, with 80% power and a 2-sided alpha value of 0.05. The calculated sample size was 48 pts.

### Results
A total of 50 pts were enrolled between September 2013 and May 2019 and their median follow-up time was 34.3 months. The number of pts whose subgroup of time from adjuvant chemotherapy (6-12 month/12-24 month/more than 24 months) was 16 pts, 15 pts, and 19 pts, respectively. Median total dose of oxaliplatin for adjuvant chemotherapy were 1136 mg/body (range, 470 mg/body-1904 mg/body). Of those 50 pts, 12 pts received FOLFOX plus BV, 21 pts received CAPOX plus BV, 10 pts received SOX plus BV and 7 pts received FOLFOX plus cetuximab or panitumumab. Median total dose of oxaliplatin were 502.5 mg/body for FOLFOX plus BV, 1177 mg/body for CAPOX+BV, 705 mg/body for SOX+BV and 1180 mg/body for FOLFOX plus cetuximab or panitumumab. Median PFS was 11.5 months ($95\%$ CI, 8.3-16.0) and was longer than the predefined threshold median PFS. Median PFS among subgroups based on time from adjuvant chemotherapy (6-12 month/12-24 month/more than 24 months) was compar

## P-36 Prognostic Value of Tumor Laterality and Recurrence Risk in Patients with Stage III Colon Cancer Treated with Adjuvant Chemotherapy
**Authors:** A. Monteiro, T. Cunha Pereira, R. Félix Soares, F. Macedo, J. Paulo, M. Marques, N. Bonito, P. Jacinto, J. Ribeiro, G. Sousa
**Affiliation:** Portuguese Oncology Institute of Coimbra Francisco Gentil, Coimbra, Portugal

### Background
Despite differences in anatomy, embryological origins, genetic mutations and metastization patterns of cancer between right and left colon, stage III colon cancer is generally still treated as one entity with uniform therapy [1]. Recently, the IDEA study evaluated the efficacy of 3-month adjuvant chemotherapy with CAPOX