# Real-Time Finite-Element Simulation of Electromagnetic Transients of Transformer on FPGA
**Peng Liu**, Student Member, IEEE, and **Venkata Dinavahi**, Senior Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—The computation of the electromagnetic transients in a power transformer with nonlinear material using the finite element method (FEM) is so dense that traditional nonlinear solver employing the Newton-Raphson method can hardly execute in real-time. In this paper, we emulate the finite-element computation of electromagnetic transients of a transformer in real-time for the first time. The transmission line modeling (TLM) method employed in the FEM successfully decoupled the nonlinear elements from the linear network so the nonlinearities could be solved individually, which is perfect for parallel processing. The parallelism of the TLM-FE solution is sufficiently explored and realized on a field-programmable gate array (FPGA) with deep data pipelining, and the implementation can execute in real-time and provide detailed field information of the transformer during the transients. The proposed non-iterative field-circuit coupling enabled the transformer to interface with external network and comparison with a commercial FEM software proved the accuracy and computational efficiency of the real-time FE model.

**Index Terms**—Electromagnetic transients, field-programmable gate arrays, field-circuit coupling, finite element method, parallel processing, power transformer, real-time systems, transmission line modeling.

## I. INTRODUCTION
Transformers are essential components in a power delivery system. The behavior of the electromagnetic field in a transformer is governed by Ampere’s law, and the accurate prediction of the magnetodynamic field is commonly obtained from the FEM simulation, a powerful numerical method to deal with complex geometries and material nonlinearities.

An accurate real-time electromagnetic field-transient simulation of a power transformer is of great benefit for the design and testing of better control and protection schemes, cost reductions, and energy efficiency improvement. However, as the permeability of the material depends on the magnetic field strength, solving the discretized nonlinear system of field equations in space-time requires iterative techniques such as the Newton-Raphson algorithm within each simulation time-step. Thus, a new linear system has to be solved at each iteration due to the updated Jacobian matrix, and the dense computation makes the traditional FEM solver unbearably slow for real-time execution. In the authors’ knowledge, real-time simulation is only possible by simplifying the field problem to a lumped network. The traditional lumped models [1]–[6] used for electromagnetic transient simulation of the transformer include the admittance matrix based model and the topology-based magnetic equivalent circuit (MEC) model, both of which have been adequately utilized in real-time simulation [7], [8] for modeling various multi-winding transformers; nonlinear effects such as hysteresis and eddy current behavior have also been sufficiently represented. Although these analytical circuit-oriented models can be calculated fast, they suffer from oversimplification and serious information loss.

The transmission line modeling method is based on Huygens’s principle and was originally developed by Johns [9] to simulate wave propagation. Then the concepts of TLM link and stub were proposed for the analysis of nonlinear networks to effectively decouple the nonlinear elements from the linear system [10]–[14]. Later Lobry and Deblecker insightfully uncovered the analogy between the finite element matrix and the nodal admittance matrix of a corresponding equivalent network and successfully applied the TLM technique to the FEM solution [15]–[17]. The improved computational efficiency and accuracy were notably discussed.

Solid foundations have been laid by previous scholars, yet the TLM technique used in FEM can be further explored for implementation on parallel hardware architectures to achieve the most computational efficiency, especially for real-time computation. In addition, the TLM-FE models in [15]–[17] are all fed with current sources, and an appropriate field-circuit coupling technique is necessary to interface with the external network.

A single TLM iteration is composed of two phases: scattering and gathering. In the scattering phase, pulses are injected from the linear network to each external element. Thus, all elements are decoupled from the network and the reflected pulses of external elements can be computed individually, i.e., the scattering phase can be perfectly parallelized. In the gathering phase, the reflected pulses return and impact on the linear network. Since the admittance matrix is determined by the impedance of the TLM links and remains unchanged, only one inversion is enough in the beginning. Thus, the computation of the gathering phase includes mainly matrix-vector