# Shifted Frequency Modeling of Hybrid Modular Multilevel Converters for Simulation of MTDC Grid
Dewu Shu, Venkata Dinavahi, Senior Member, IEEE, Xiaorong Xie, Senior Member, IEEE, Qirong Jiang, Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—When investigating voltage and current stresses in critical main-circuit components during faults of the converter, a detailed equivalent model capable of representing the balancing control strategies of the capacitor voltages on the sub-module level, along with blocking and de-locking, is always necessary. Among previously proposed equivalent models of the MMC, only sub-module averaged models (SAMs) can capture interested inner dynamics inside each arm. However, the simulation accuracy of SAMs is not always satisfactory, especially when the time step is larger than 10 µs. In order to further improve the simulation accuracy with guaranteed simulation efficiency, the shifted frequency modeling (SFM) of the half- and full-bridge hybrid MMC is proposed in this paper. Therein, each sub-module is represented by Thévenin equivalents derived by dynamic phasors. The arm of the MMC is represented by Norton equivalents to guarantee the efficiency, considering both normal and dc-blocking conditions. The effectiveness of the proposed model in terms of accuracy and efficiency is validated by simulating a MMC based HVDC transmission.

**Index Terms**—Dynamic phasors, electromagnetic transient (EMT), modular multilevel converter (MMC), MTDC grid, shifted frequency modeling.

## I. INTRODUCTION
As one of the most promising multilevel voltage source converters (VSCs), the modular multilevel converter (MMC) offers many merits such as smaller distortions, low switching losses, and smaller filter sizes [1]-[4]. To validate the parameter design and the control scheme of the MMC-based HVDC transmission, it is critical to simulate the MMC in electromagnetic transient (EMT) programs. However, the detailed simulation model of the MMC is inefficient due to the following reasons: 1) the detailed model should use a small numerical integration time-step to accurately represent fast switching events; 2) the admittance matrix should be updated during every switching event, which will impose a significant computational burden for EMT simulations [5]. In addition, the dynamic behavior of the MMC can be quite different from normal conditions due to the nonlinear characteristics of freewheeling diodes [6]. Notably, when investigating voltage and current stresses during faults inside or immediately outside the converter, quantities of each individual sub-module must be simulated in detail. Therefore, in order to improve the simulation efficiency without compromising the accuracy, it is still required to propose more accurate and efficient methods of modeling, which is capable of representing inner dynamics of each sub-module as well as the dynamic characteristics of the diodes.

Several models of the MMC have been previously proposed, which are summarized in Table I. Specifically, the analytical models of the MMC are based on mathematical models of the MMC, which are represented in the form of state-space equations [7]-[9]. These models are accurate to represent system-level dynamics under normal conditions. However, since the characteristics of the diodes are not taken into consideration in these models, the MMCs in dc-fault blocking conditions cannot be represented accurately. More importantly, the inner dynamics inside each arm, i.e., the specific dynamic characteristics of each sub-module, cannot be represented. The arm-averaged models (AAMs), on the other hand, are developed under the hypothesis that capacitor voltages inside each arm are perfectly balanced, and therefore each arm can be modeled as a Thévenin equivalent circuit [5], a controlled voltage source [14], etc., accompanied by a series of diodes or switches [18]. In [11], an AAM with a controlled voltage source model was proposed to represent the half-bridge sub-module based MMC under blocking conditions. However, the equivalent arm circuits adopting other types of sub-modules were not comprehensively analyzed. Recently, the dynamic phasor model of the MMC was derived in the form of state-space equations [16]-[17]. However, as no diode is represented in this model, it can only be used to simulate dynamics under normal conditions, and dc-blocking conditions are