## Small Time-Step FPGA-based Real-Time Simulation of Power Systems Including Multiple Converters
Ramin Mirzahosseini, Reza Iravani, Fellow, IEEE.

**Abstract**—This paper presents an FPGA-based Digital Real-Time Simulation (DRTS) environment for the analysis of Electromagnetic Transients (EMTs) of power systems that include multiple Power Electronic Converters (PECs). The main features of the proposed DRTS platform are that it i) employs two-value resistor switch model for PECs and thus avoids inaccuracies of Associate Discrete Circuit (ADC) model and ii) does not require separation of PECs by transmission lines (stub lines) and thus accurately represents PECs in close electrical proximity of each other. These features respectively result in a time-variant and large system admittance matrix which significantly increases the computation burden in each simulation time-step and can render it infeasible for real-time applications. To overcome this problem this paper introduces i) Switching-Network Partitioning (SNP) method which is tailored for PECs representation in FPGA and ii) Reformulated Modified Nodal Analysis (RMNA) method to enable computational parallelism between the solution of network and component models in FPGA. SNP enables solution-level partitioning of the PECs and the rest of the system. The developed DRTS platform enables sub-microsecond simulation time-step and provides a fixed hardware irrespective of the system configuration. Performance of the platform is evaluated for a study system and verified versus off-line simulation studies.

**Index Terms**—Real-time systems, Field programmable gate arrays, Power electronics, Electromagnetic transient analysis

## I. INTRODUCTION
Real-time simulation of power system EMTs is the basis for the Hardware-In-the-Loop (HIL) environment to evaluate and test control/protection platforms [1]. Nodal Analysis approach is mainly employed in the existing production- and research-grade DRTS platforms [2] [3] [4]. Continuously increasing number of PECs in power system necessitates real-time simulation of large systems with a small simulation time-step (less than 1 µs). This has become major challenge for these platforms.

Simulation of power system EMTs based on GPU and FPGA has been reported in the literature. GPU, due to its memory and processor structure, has been employed to accelerate off-line simulation [5] or relatively large time-step DRTS applications [6]. Reconfigurable parallel processing capability and on-chip memory of the FPGA make it suitable for small ADC switch model [7] provides computational advantage for simulation of PECs, and has been implemented on CPU-based [8] and FPGA-based [9] [10] DRTS platforms. However, the drawbacks of this method, i.e., artificial switching loss and spurious oscillations, limit its applications for systems embedding High-frequency PECs. Several attempts to enhance the ADC model have been reported, including: incorporation of conduction losses [11], reducing the oscillations by adjusting the ADC model parameters, based on the eigenvalues of the system model in $z$-domain, for a simple single PEC system [12], and optimizing the model parameters to damp certain oscillatory modes for specific PEC configurations [13].

To overcome the drawbacks of the ADC switch model, i.e., artificial switching loss and spurious oscillations, we adopt the two-value resistor model. The latter model results in time-variant system Y matrix which in turn imposes unacceptable computational burden for real-time calculations. This paper introduces a novel partitioning method to overcome this drawback of the two-value resistor model.

Partitioning methods divide the power system mathematical model into subsystems to enable parallel computation in each time-step, and can be devised at modeling, discretization, or solution stages. Modeling-level partitioning exploits physical lines or artificial stub-lines [14] [15] [16] to achieve partitioning, however, introduces parasitic elements which may lead to spurious oscillations. This approach is not suitable for multiple PECs in close electrical vicinity of each other.

Discretization-level partitioning adopts explicit integration methods, e.g., Forward Euler (FE), [17] [18] [19] and can lead to numerical instability due to limitations in their stability characteristics [20] and stiff nature of EMT equations [21] [22]. A necessary condition for stability in the specific case of modular multilevel PEC is reported in [23] .

Solution-level partitioning is based on implicit integration methods [24] [25] [26]. As compared with the former two methods, solution-level partitioning is computationally more demanding, but does not cause numerical instability or oscillations. An FPGA-based solution-level partitioning is proposed in [27] based on customized floating-point cores and an