# The implementation and effectiveness of linear interpolation within digital simulation

**P Kuffel** and **K Kent**  
Manitoba Hydro, 820 Taylor Avenue, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada

**G Irwin**  
Manitoba HVDC Research Centre, 400-1619 Pembina Highway, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada

**Abstract**  
The greater use of detailed models and the increasing size and complexity of system studies in power system digital simulation has resulted in the need to re-examine the ability of digital computations performed at finite time intervals to accurately represent the actual system. These concerns are manifested in two distinct areas. The first is the ability to switch elements at a specific point in time. Traditional digital simulation techniques allow switching elements to change state only at discrete computation times, whereas in reality switching can occur at any instant in time. The second area of concern is in the ability to accurately represent detailed control systems. These concerns are of particular importance in simulations containing a large number of controlled switching devices, such as HVdc systems or ac systems containing FACTs devices. This paper presents a discussion of the implementation and effectiveness of linear interpolation techniques in a digital simulation program. The paper addresses interpolation in both the network solution and the control system. The CIGRE HVdc Benchmark Model (Szechtman, M. et al., Electra, 1991, 135 and Wess, T. and Ring, H., CIGRE Report, WG 14-02, 1988) with detailed control models is used to demonstrate how linear interpolation is implemented and its effectiveness. All simulation results presented were generated using EMTDC (Nayak, O. et al., IEEE Computer Applications in Power, 1995, 8(1)), but the techniques discussed can be applied to any electromagnetic transients program. © Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.

**Keywords:** digital simulation, Interpolation, HVdc, controls

## I. Introduction

In the past, digital simulations of HVdc systems consisted of small network models, so concerns related to time step errors could be addressed by reducing the time step size. This solution resulted in significantly increased run times, however since the system model was small, the study turnaround time penalties associated with simulation time step reduction were acceptable. Reduction of the time step size was also an effective way to reduce the inherent discretization errors within the controls model. However, as the combination of increased system model size and the use of detailed controls models has become more common [1-3], the reduction of simulation time step size has become an impractical solution.

The use of trapezoidal integration as the solution method in electromagnetic transients programs [4] is based on the assumption that the change of any parameter from one time step to the next is linear. Since the change in a given parameter across a time step is assumed to be linear, it is possible to implement interpolation between time steps. This can effectively result in a "quasi-continuous time" solution with very little impact on overall run times.

Some presently available electromagnetic transient simulation programs employ interpolation techniques [5,6].

Interpolation can be implemented in two distinct areas. The first of these is in the network solution, and the second is in the controls model.

## II. Interpolation within the network solution

A basic electromagnetic transients solution algorithm solves the network differential equations by applying trapezoidal integration in discrete time steps. The selection of the time step is usually based on the time constants in the system model. A typical time step for most transient studies is $50\,\mu\text{s}$. However, when fast acting switching devices such as thyristors, diodes, or surge arresters must be modelled, the $50\,\mu\text{s}$ time step may not provide sufficient accuracy in the simulation of these devices.

To illustrate this, Figure 1 shows an example of a current through a diode (or thyristor).

where $T$ is time at the end of the regular time step and $\Delta t$ is the time step.

The interpolation is a very fast operation compared to the time required to re-solve the network due to the switching. In some algorithms, the interpolation can also be limited to a local subsystem, since each subsystem is mathematically isolated from other subsystems by the inherent delays in the tra