# Time-Window Based Discrete-Time Fourier Series for Electromagnetic Transients in Power Systems
Arash Tavighi, Member IEEE, José R. Martı́, Fellow IEEE, Verónica A. Galván, Member IEEE, and José A. Gutierrez-Robles Member IEEE

**Abstract**—This paper approaches the solution of electromagnetic transients in the frequency domain from the point of view of choosing a time window with sufficient width to allow the time constants of the transients to decay to a small value. This criterion, and the required maximum frequency content of the simulation, fully determine the simulation parameters. Satisfying this criterion, a very simple methodology, like the Discrete Time Fourier Series can provide very accurate results without the inherent difficulties of time-warping solutions based on the Numerical Laplace Transform (NLT). Even though the NLT can give very accurate results, it requires expert knowledge to correctly specify the damping factors, sampling schemes, and windowing functions. The Discrete Time Fourier Series (DTFS) solution is compared with the NLT and with analytical solution for a circuit with lumped elements, and with the most-accepted frequency-dependent transmission line models in the Electromagnetic Transients Program (EMTP): the JMARTI (fdLINE) model and the Universal Line Model (ULM) for a double-circuit transmission line.

**Index Terms**—Discrete Time Fourier Series, Time-window width, Numerical Laplace Transform, Time constants, electromagnetic transient simulation.

## I. INTRODUCTION

FREQUENCY-DOMAIN methods have been used to solve electromagnetic transients in power systems in the frequency domain and then transferring the solution to the time domain using numerical Fourier or Laplace transforms. They are particularly useful when the system parameters are frequency dependent, and to verify the solutions for time-domain frequency-dependent transmission line and other component models [1]–[6].

Pioneering work on power system transients’ simulation using numerical Fourier transforms was performed in 1965 [7]. This work addressed the Gibbs oscillations due to truncation of the finite time sampling rate. The authors of [7] introduced the use of the Lanczos’ window to reduce Gibbs errors. They also investigated the aliasing errors in the time domain due to the discretization of the continuous variable in frequency. To reduce time aliasing, they proposed the “Modified Fourier Transform” (MFT) in which they smoothened the frequency response by adding a damping factor [8]. In 1978, Wilcox formulated the MFT methods in terms of the Laplace transform theory and introduced the term Numerical Laplace Transform (NLT) [9]. He also provided a criterion to calculate the associated damping factor. In 1982, Wedepohl proposed another criterion for the calculation of the damping factor based on the number of samples [10].

Unlike the most well-known frequency-dependent transmission line and cable models in the Electromagnetic Transients Program (EMTP) [11], such as fdLINE [12], fqLINE [13], and the Universal Line Model (ULM) [14], which use curve-fitting algorithms to approximate the frequency-dependent line functions, frequency-domain solutions make no approximations regarding the frequency-dependence of the line parameters or of the transformation matrices for modal decomposition. On the other hand, going back and forth between time and frequency domains imposes higher computational costs for frequency-domain methods than their time-domain counterparts. There have been several attempts to reduce the computational costs of frequency-domain methods [15]–[20].

The NLT method has been the most-widely used frequency-domain solution for power system transients’ studies. However, the use of a boosting factor in the NLT to compensate for the damping factor initially used to time-limit the duration of the transient signal often results in amplifying the Gibbs oscillations [21]. In this paper, we present examples where the use of the most well-known windowing functions to reduce these errors is not totally effective.

The application of Fourier solutions for transients’ analysis was discussed in [22] and [23]. These references highlighted the importance of the selection of the time window size to allow any system oscillation to damp out within this window. In the present paper, we start from the required size of the time window and present guidelines to choose its width. Choosing correctly the time window width and specifying the required maximum frequency in the transient [24] defines a very accurate Discrete Time Fourier Series (DTFS) solution.

The proposed DTFS solution is simpler to implement than the classical NLT solution, as it does not require the user to specify the damping factors and windowing functions required by the NLT to avoid Gibbs and aliasing errors. The DTFS can