Received March 22, 2016, accepted April 14, 2016, date of publication May 4, 2016, date of current version June 3, 2016.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/ACCESS.2016.2562498

Coalitional Games for Joint Co-Tier and Cross-Tier Cooperative Spectrum Sharing in Dense Heterogeneous Networks
MOUNA HAJIR1, (Student Member, IEEE), RAMI LANGAR2, (Member, IEEE), AND FRANÇOIS GAGNON1, (Senior Member, IEEE)
1 Lacime Laboratory, Department of Electrical Engineering, École de Technologie Supérieure, Montreal, QC H3C1K3, Canada
2 Laboratoire d’Informatique de Paris 6, Pierre and Marie Curie University, Paris 75005, France

Corresponding author: M. Hajir (mouna.hajir.1@ens.etsmtl.ca)
This work was supported by the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada Ultra Electronics Chair in Wireless Emergency and Tactical Communication.

**ABSTRACT** With the dense deployment of small cells in the next generation of mobile networks, the users from different tiers suffer from high downlink interferences. In this paper, we propose a game theoretic approach for joint co-tier and cross-tier collaboration in heterogeneous networks and analyze the relevance of the proposed scheme. First, we propose a coalition structure game with a weighted Owen value as imputation, where the small-cell base stations (SBSs) and their connecting macrocell user equipments (MUEs) form a priori union. We prove that the proposed framework optimizes the users profit. As an additional global benefit, the SBSs are encouraged to host the harmed public users in their vicinity. Second, we propose a canonical game with a weighted solidarity value as imputation to allow cooperation among SBSs and MUEs when they fail to connect to nearby SBSs. We prove that the weak players are protected in this scheme and that a high degree of fairness is provided in the game. We compare through extensive simulations the proposed frameworks with state-of-the-art resource allocation solutions, access modes, and legacy game-theoretic approaches. We show that the proposed framework obtains the best performances for the MUEs and small-cells user equipments in terms of throughput and fairness. Throughput gain is in order of 40% even reaching 50% for both types of users.

**INDEX TERMS** Small-cells, heterogeneous networks, resource allocation, interference mitigation, game theory, cooperative games.

## I. INTRODUCTION
One of the main challenges of the fifth generation mobile networks is responding to the exponentially-increasing demand for higher data capacity and data rates. This involves a greater spectrum in low and high bands and more antennas, as well as the deployment of more small-cells overlaying the existing macrocells. Indeed, operators are looking to offload traffic from their Macrocell Base Stations (MBSs) as they anticipate data traffic to grow by 1000 times by 2018. Accordingly, the dense deployment of small-cells is a crucial part of addressing this growth. These small-cells are connected to the backhaul network via optical fibre or DSL and allow not only higher spectrum efficiency but also greater overall network capacity. There are several additional advantages, such as improved indoor coverage, reduced costs and power consumption along with a higher Quality of Service (QoS) satisfaction [2].

However, the coexistence of users and base stations from both tiers comes with several challenges. In order for capacity to increase in tandem with the addition of small-cells, a rigorous interference and resource management has to be planned. An approach that eliminates cross-tier interference is the split-spectrum policy in which the small-cell tier uses a dedicated bandwidth distinct from the macro-tier [3]–[5]. The drawback of this approach is inefficiency in terms of spectrum reuse. On the other hand, the co-channel deployment approach allows both macrocells and small-cells to access to the entire spectrum resource, though cooperation among the different tiers is required. Two types of interferences induced by the co-channel deployment can seriously degrade the performances of the network, e.g., the cross-tier interference (from the MBS to the SBSs) and co-tier interference (from SBSs to SBSs). In order to mitigate these interferences several decentralized solutions have been proposed [6]–[9]. On one hand, the non-cooperative approaches have been widely studied and are characterized by the independent decisions of the players who aim to improve their own performances. To solve non-cooperative games, the most widely-used concept is the well-known Nash equilibrium [10]. Non-cooperative game theory has been considered for resource allocation [11]–[14] and power control [15], [16]. A non-cooperative evolutionary game based on stochastic geometry analysis for small-cells resource allocation is presented in [13]. On the other hand, with the need for self-organizing, decentralized and autonomous networks, cooperative approaches have emerged as a key solution for the success of dense heterogeneous networks.

According to cooperative approach, game theory is an essential tool in helping the various entities make decisions in two-tier networks [17]. A cooperative game can occur in a within a closed subscribed group (CSG) manner [25]. Very few papers have investigated the collaboration between the harmed MUEs and neighbouring SBSs in instances when the first fails to connect to the small-cell. Yet another problem not fully investigated is when the cooperative games involve hybrid or open-access small-cells. Several questions arise: How can the cooperation between users and base stations from different tiers be modelled? How can the small-cell tier properly process the MUEs demands, while managing the cooperative resource allocation in a fair and strategic manner? How can the SBSs be encouraged to serve public users without degrading their own performances? How can the different bargaining power levels be managed in a game?

Such questions are essential to the successful dense deployment of small-cells; our proposed cooperative model attempts to provide solutions to these issues. The main contribution of this paper is to propose a new cooperative-game framework for co-tier and cross-tier int