# Use of XML to import SCADA data into EMTP
S. Dennetière, Member, IEEE, A. Parisot, Member, IEEE, E. Milin, A. Dalmau Pons

S. Dennetière and A. Parisot are with RTE – National Center for Grid Expertise (Réseau de Transport d'Electricité – 34 rue Henri Regnault 92068 Paris La Défense Cédex)
E. Milin is with RTE – R&D Department (Immeuble Le Colbert, 9 rue de la Porte de Buc, BP 561, 78005 Versailles)
A. Dalmau Pons is with ELIA- Analysis Management (Av de Vilvorde - Vilvoordelaan, 126 (A.01.21) B - 1000 Bruxelles)
Corresponding author e-mail: sebastien.dennetiere@rte-france.com

**Abstract**—In the next few years many installations of long EHV AC cables and HVDC links are planned on the French grid. Prior to these huge system changes various EMT studies have to be conducted to prevent problems. Some of these studies require large scale network models. To limit errors when building large networks and to gain time, the French TSO RTE has decided to develop an interface between system tools and EMTP. This XML based interface enables SCADA data to be automatically imported into an EMTP graphical user interface. This paper describes the environment developed in EMTP-RV, imported data from SCADA to EMTP and studies performed with the full models. Simulation speed, data availability and model reduction issues are addressed in this paper.

**Index Terms**— data portability, EMTP, Electromagnetic transient studies, large scale networks modeling.

## I. INTRODUCTION
THE French TSO RTE (Réseau de Transport d'Electricité) operates, designs and maintains the largest network in Europe, at the center of the European electricity market. To carry out needed reinforcements in the French grid in a context of dwindling public acceptance for new overhead infrastructure, many installations of long EHV cables, capacitor banks and HVDC links are planned in the next few years. These new components may give rise to unusual electromechanical and electromagnetic phenomena with potential adverse effects on the existing network. Therefore, specific studies have to be conducted, from the earlier planning to final commissioning stages.

The classical approach to conduct studies based on simulation tools is to establish a compromise between precision, computational speed and available data. The ultimate goal is to achieve the most precise calculations with all relevant modeling data and within minimal computational time. Depending on the type of studies the power system engineer will therefore use different methods, databases and simulation tools, such as load-flow, transient stability packages and EMTP software. As a consequence there has always been an issue concerning the data portability between these tools.

This paper presents a solution implemented and tested at RTE on real cases to:
- save time building EMTP network models as they have already been modeled for load-flow or transient stability studies,
- ensure that the models used from load-flow studies to EMTP studies are consistent,
- ensure proper management of data when modeling large scale networks,
- be able to run load-flow, time-domain and frequency scan calculations in the same platform,
- harmonize the visual drawing of the network in EMTP with other standard representation used in network operation and planning.

The proposed solution is based on:
- XML data import from SCADA to EMTP,
- library of components to create a network model in EMTP that looks like standard RTE grid representations in system studies.

To the author's best knowledge it is the first time that such an approach is implemented to get a dynamic link between classical large scale network simulation tools and EMTP type software. Frequency and time domain simulations on the entire 400 kV French grid have been successfully performed. The software used in this paper is EMTP-RV [3]. This choice is related to previous work conducted by the authors and also the required user interface capabilities. Nevertheless the approach proposed in this paper is independent from the EMTP simulation tool.

Simulation of large scale networks in EMTP has already been presented in previous works. The approach proposed in [1] does not include data portability between simulation tools. Usage of fundamental frequency multi-port network equivalents is another solution presented in [2] to reduce system size. However, this solution is not optimal because network equivalents have to be rebuilt for every network change (topology, parameters,…).

## II. NEEDS AND REQUIREMENTS FOR LARGE SCALE NETWORK MODELING AT RTE
Every installation of new components requires EMTP studies with a network model of the area. A large scale network model that represents a specific network topology and a load situation is useful to get a relevant starting point of EMTP studies and to get an accurate model of the network for frequency scan studies.

### A. Starting point of EMTP studies