# A Bridge-Arm-Module-Based Fixed-Admittance ADC Model for Converters in EMT Simulation
Yang Cao, Graduate Student Member, IEEE, Xiaodong Yuan, Huachun Han, Mingwang Xu, Graduate Student Member, IEEE, Fei Zhang, Member, IEEE, and Wei Gu, Senior Member, IEEE

Received 5 February 2025; revised 2 July 2025; accepted 8 September 2025. Date of publication 11 September 2025; date of current version 24 November 2025. This work was supported by the State Grid Corporation of China Headquarters Science and Technology Project under Grant 5400-202318547A-3-2-ZN. Paper no. TPWRD-00165-2025. (Corresponding author: Wei Gu.)
Yang Cao, Mingwang Xu, Fei Zhang, and Wei Gu are with the School of Electrical Engineering, Southeast University, Nanjing 210096, China (e-mail: yangcao@seu.edu.cn; 230228745@seu.edu.cn; zhangfei@seu.edu.cn; wgu@seu.edu.cn).
Xiaodong Yuan and Huachun Han are with the State Grid Jiangsu Electric Power Company Ltd. Research Institute, Nanjing 211103, China (e-mail: lanyyuan@js.sgcc.com.cn; hanhc@js.sgcc.com.cn).

**Abstract**—Electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation models, especially converter models, face challenges in meeting the demand for precise and fast simulation of complex dynamics in modern distribution systems. Difficulty in achieving both high accuracy and efficiency simultaneously is a key issue in converter modeling, especially in real-time simulation. To address this issue, this paper proposes a parametric fixed-admittance associated discrete circuit (ADC) converter model based on bridge arm modules (BAMs), with the aim of improving simulation precision and efficiency. The paper first establishes a parametric ADC model of the BAM. An optimal parameter calculation approach is introduced to ensure high fidelity through analysis of steady-state and transient characteristics. Furthermore, to mitigate initial errors caused by state switching, a cross-re-initialization (CRI) method combined with improved state determination expressions for specific topologies is developed, effectively correcting these errors without compromising computational efficiency. Simulation and experimental results validate the effectiveness of the BAM-ADC model, highlighting its high precision, high efficiency, and broad applicability.

**Index Terms**—Associated discrete circuit (ADC), fixed-admittance model, power converter modeling, real-time simulation, virtual power loss.

## I. INTRODUCTION
The technological innovation of third-generation power electronic switches and the widespread adoption of converter-interfaced generation technologies have led to a substantial increase in dynamic response characteristics within modern power systems. As a result, the definition of power system stability has evolved to encompass “converter-driven stability” [1], [2], allowing for a more comprehensive assessment of the impact of fast-response power electronics. Converter-driven stability is primarily influenced by power converters and related control. The growing incorporation of renewable energy sources and the proliferation of power electronics offer significant promise for energy applications, but they also pose safety and stability challenges [3], [4]. This highlights the necessity for precise simulation and analysis of power systems [5]. Traditional electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation models are inadequate for meeting the requirements of new distribution systems [6], which underscores the growing importance of accurate and efficient power electronic converter models [7], [8], [9].

In EMT simulations, achieving both high accuracy and high efficiency is crucial for converter modeling, especially in real-time simulation [8], [10], [11]. Presently, simulation platforms such as PSCAD, RTDS, and OPAL-RT still adopt the $R_{ON}/R_{OFF}$ [12], [13] or the L/C-based associated discrete circuit (L/C-ADC) model [14], [15]. However, the former faces challenges in scaling due to inefficiency, while the latter imposes limitations on the maximum time step and suffers from virtual power loss.

Several studies have focused on improving efficiency without compromising accuracy by employing reduced-order methods. Reduced-order methods aim to reduce the matrix size from $K$ to $K-k$ by eliminating internal nodes or employing alternative solver architectures, thereby reducing the computational overhead. For the same system, the matrix inverse complexity is from $O(K^3)$ to $O[(K-k)^3]$ after dimension reduction. Li et al. [16] and Gao et al. [17] established equivalent models based on ports and components rather than nodes and branches, effectively reducing matrix order. Zhang et al. [18] combined model order reduction with state prediction to improve the accuracy of voltage source converter models. Xu et al. [19] proposed a low-dimensional equivalent model using an alternating half-step decoupling method, improving simulation efficiency. RTDS [20] has proposed a universal converter model (UCM) based on descriptor state space equations, and OPAL-RT [21] has proposed improved switching function models based on state space equations. These state-space-equation-based models reduce the computational overhead, which can also be interpreted as a form of dimension reduction. Although these methods reduce the computational complexity of per matrix inversion, they still require repeated matrix inversions, failing to fundamentally alleviate the substantial computational burden imposed by frequent matrix inversions, especially as the system scale increases. Moreover, the internal operating states of the reduced-order systems are not directly accessible, necessitating additional computations.

Some studies have traded a certain degree of model accuracy for significant gains in computational efficiency. Among them,