# A computationally efficient approach for power semiconductor loss estimation of modular multilevel converters in EMT simulations
Ajinkya Sinkar a,* , Chen Jiang b , Rohitha Jayasinghe b , Aniruddha M. Gole a
a Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB R3T 2N2, Canada
b Manitoba Hydro International, Winnipeg, MB R3R 1A3, Canada

**Keywords:** Electromagnetic Transient (EMT) Simulations, Modular Multilevel Converters (MMC), Power Loss

**Abstract:** This paper presents a computationally efficient approach for estimating the power semiconductor losses of a modular multilevel converter (MMC) in electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulations. Earlier approaches required the loss estimation to be carried out at the individual IGBT-diode component level. In contrast, this paper extends this concept to the simulation of an entire MMC arm thus speeding up the simulation significantly. The proposed approach can accurately estimate the losses during steady state as well as transient operation with great speed. Furthermore, the loss estimates of each individual submodule can also be reported separately with the proposed approach, if needed. It is verified using a simulation test case of a two-terminal MMC-HVdc link and comparing the computed losses against the earlier (but much slower) approach of computing the losses at individual switch level.

## 1. Introduction
MODULAR multilevel converter (MMC) is a popular voltage source converter (VSC) topology commonly used for medium and high voltage applications due to its flexibility, scalability, modularity, and superior harmonic performance [1]. Each phase leg of an MMC consists of an upper and lower arm (as shown in Fig. 1), each of which contains stacks of series-connected submodules (SM) for generating a stepped waveform that closely resembles a sinusoidal wave [2]. Typical SMs comprise of power semiconductor switches (IGBT-diode pairs) and a capacitor as illustrated in Fig. 2. Power loss occurs in these switches in the ON state (i.e., conduction loss), the OFF state (i.e., blocking loss) and while transitioning between the ON and OFF state (i.e., switching loss). An accurate quantification of these losses under all operating scenarios (steady-state as well as transient) is essential to ensure that the switches always operate within their limits as well as for effectively designing their thermal management system [3].

For high-power applications, it is generally not feasible to evaluate these power losses experimentally [4]. Hence, one has to resort to analytical or simulation-based techniques for effectively estimating them. Several analytical approaches for loss estimation of MMCs have been proposed in the literature [5–8]. However, these approaches make a lot of simplifying assumptions and typically are not able to quantify the impact of a converter’s controls on its power losses [4].

On the other hand, simulation-based approaches can estimate the losses under a wide range of operating scenarios (steady-state as well as transient). Additionally, the impact of a converter’s controls on its power losses can also be studied [2,4]. This makes such approaches an attractive option for estimating the power losses of MMCs. Several simulation-based approaches have been proposed in the literature for estimating the losses of VSCs [9–13]. However, these approaches generally require device-level voltage and current information for estimating the losses. If applied directly for estimating the losses of an entire MMC, these methods can make the simulation computationally burdensome. This is because each switch in an MMC would need to be modelled individually in order to obtain the required device-level information. This increases the number of nodes in the simulated circuit, thereby significantly increasing the computational burden.

Modern electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation programs typically combine an entire MMC arm into a single equivalent whose parameters in each time-step are calculated from the individual firing pulses and the initial conditions at the beginning of the time-step [14]. This approach can improve the simulation time significantly [14]. However, as the switches are not individually modelled, it is not possible

## 2. Semiconductor Power Loss Estimation in EMT Simulations
### 2.1. Losses in Power Semiconductor Switches
Losses in power semiconductor switches can be categorized as: (i) conduction loss, (ii) blocking loss, and (iii) switching loss. Conduction loss can be easily evaluated in an EMT simulation by multiplying the device’s ON state current with its ON-state voltage drop. Similarly, blocking loss can be evaluated by multiplying the OFF-state voltage across the device with its OFF-state leakage current. The challenge lies in estimati