# A Component-Level Modeling and Fine-Grained Simulation Method for Renewable Energy Power Systems Suitable for GPU Architecture
Qiguo Wang, Jin Xu, Member, IEEE, Keyou Wang, Member, IEEE, Guojie Li, Senior Member, IEEE, Jianqi Zhou and Junichi Arai, Senior Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—The detailed modeling of renewable energy power stations captures the full impedance characteristics of the system but significantly increases the scale of electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulations. Parallel computing is essential to enhance the simulation efficiency, but it requires algorithms that are specifically designed to leverage the architecture of high-performance hardware. This paper proposes the generalized latency insertion method (GLIM) to establish component-level models for renewable energy power systems. GLIM extends its applicability to complex equipment incompatible with the constraints of the traditional latency insertion method (LIM) by introducing controlled sources. In this way, the simulation of complex power systems can be transformed into the solution of massive GLIM basic topologies. Then, according to the multi-thread parallel and optimized storage techniques, GLIM conducts fine-grained simulations on graphics processing units (GPUs), significantly improving the solving efficiency. In the case study, a renewable energy power system with large-scale wind farm integration is used to demonstrate the effectiveness of GLIM on a GeForce RTX 3060 laptop GPU. The simulation accuracy of GLIM is verified through comparison with PSCAD, and the simulation efficiency is verified by changing the scale of wind farms.

**Index Terms**—Component-level modeling, Fine-grained simulation, Renewable energy power systems, Graphics processor unit.

*Funding and Author Affiliations*
This work was supported in part by the National Key Research and Development Program of China (No. 2022YFE0105200) and in part by the project of State Grid Zhejiang Electric Power Co., LTD., Jiaxing power supply company (5211JX230004). (Corresponding author: Jin Xu).
Q. Wang, J. Xu (e-mail: xujin20506@sjtu.edu.cn), K. Wang and G. Li are with the Key Laboratory of Control of Power Transmission and Conversion, Ministry of Education, and Shanghai Non-Carbon Energy Conversion and Utilization Institute, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai 200240, China.
J. Zhou is with the State Grid Jiaxing Power Supply Company, Jiaxing, China (e-mail: zhoucity@vip.sina.com).
J. Arai is with Kogakuin University of Technology & Engineering, Tokyo 163-8677, Japan (e-mail: arai@cc.kogakuin.ac.jp).

## I. INTRODUCTION
With the increasing access capacity of renewable energies, the proportion of power electronic devices in the power grid has significantly increased, and the multi-mode oscillation caused by the interaction between multiple control links has gradually become prominent [1]. Relevant studies have shown that the simplified model of power electronic equipment based on port characteristics [2], [3] will ignore some higher harmonics [4], and the equivalent model of renewable energy power stations based on aggregation [5], [6] has significant differences in impedance characteristics compared with the original system [7]. Therefore, it is necessary to conduct detailed modeling and electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulations of renewable energy power stations to ensure the stable operation of power systems.

The EMT modeling methods can be broadly divided into two main categories: the state-space model and the companion circuit model. The state-space model is solved by the state variable method (SVM) [8], which can accurately capture the dynamics of nonlinear devices but has lower simulation efficiency due to the iterative steps involved in the solution process. The companion circuit model is often combined with the nodal analysis method (NAM) for solving [9], the core of which is to establish the nodal voltage equation of the network. It avoids iteration within a single simulation step but has limitations when handling complex dynamics and nonlinear behaviors. Additionally, some scholars have proposed improvements based on these two methods. The state-space nodal method [10] combines the advantages of both SVM and NAM, which is suitable for multi-port circuits and complex power systems. The modified nodal analysis [11] and extended modified nodal analysis [12] methods address the challenges posed by voltage source branches and current-dependent circuits in traditional NAM. All of these methods can use high-performance computing platforms to improve the solution efficiency. However, NAM does not require considering the independence of interconnected branches when forming network equations compared to SVM, making it simple and effective in programming. As a result, NAM is the mainstream approach for algorithm optimization and parallel processing.

Considering that the node admittance matrix formed by the NAM is extremely sparse [13], scholars began to focus on the parallel solution of large-scale sparse linear equations using GPU. Some researchers have reconstructed parallel algorithms adapted to GPU architecture based on traditional LU decomposition algorithms. The Crout algorithm realizes parallel solutions by reducing the dependency on element computation [14]. Left-looking LU decomposition ensures the efficiency of solving matrices with different sparsity by using the sparsity index [15]. Right-looking LU decomposition can generalized latency insertion method (GLIM), which includes