## A Dynamic Phasor Model of an MMC with Extended Frequency Range for EMT Simulations
Janesh Rupasinghe, Student Member, IEEE, Shaahin Filizadeh, Senior Member, IEEE, Liwei Wang, Member IEEE

**Abstract**—This paper presents a new dynamic phasor model of a modular multilevel converter (MMC) with extended frequency range for direct interfacing to an electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulator. The internal dynamics of the MMC are modeled considering dominant harmonic components of each variable. To model the external dynamics of the converter a novel construct referred to as a base-frequency dynamic phasor is employed, which allows to capture and model any number of frequency components of external variables without significant increase in computational burden. The proposed model is validated against detailed EMT models by comparing its results for an inverter system, a back-to-back HVDC system, and a 12-bus power system built in PSCAD/EMTDC simulator. Simulation results prove that the new model is significantly more computationally efficient than existing models and is capable of maintaining a high level of accuracy. Experimental verification on a scaled down laboratory setup is also included.

**Index Terms**—Base-frequency dynamic phasor, modular multilevel converters, electromagnetic transient simulation.

## I. INTRODUCTION
Electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulations play a vital role in the study of modern power systems for intents such as determination of component ratings and insulation levels, designing control and protection systems, and explaining equipment failures [1], [2]. EMT simulators are designed to represent fast transients over a wide frequency range with great precision using advanced circuit simulation and numerical integration techniques. The role of EMT-type simulators has become more prominent with the advancements in high-voltage direct current (HVDC) transmission systems, in particular with the rapid growth of voltage-source converter (VSC)-HVDC.

Within the context of VSC-HVDC systems, EMT network subsystem that includes an MMC creates a large number of nodes in its EMT model and correspondingly increases the size of the network’s admittance matrix. Such a large matrix needs to be re-formed and inverted for every switching instant, which is computationally demanding [7], [8]. To capture the large number of MMC switching instants with adequate accuracy, small time-steps are necessary. This, together with the need for handling excessively large matrices, renders conventional EMT-type simulation of MMCs computationally inefficient.

Various modeling and simulation techniques have given rise to several equivalent and averaged models of MMCs to address the inefficiency of their EMT simulation [7]–[10]. A detailed equivalent model based upon a Thévenin equivalent of an MMC arm is presented in [7]. Even though this model is much more efficient than a conventional EMT model, it is still less effective when simulating MMC systems with a large number of levels and large-scale networks with a number of MMCs. Models based on arm switching functions proposed in [9], [10] are fast and useful in system level simulations. However, these models do not consider the SM behavior; hence, internal dynamics of the MMC cannot be studied.

Dynamic phasors (DPs) are a widely used modeling method in power system and HVDC transient simulation applications [11]–[13]. They represent the magnitude and phase of time-domain signals in the phasor domain as complex-valued phasors and provide the flexibility to include or exclude any number of harmonics in a model. Despite its selectivity, the original concept of a DP has a major disadvantage in that it becomes inefficient as the number of harmonics to be retained increases. As a result, most DP-based MMC models available in literature (e.g., [14] and [15]) consider only the lowest frequency contents of waveforms. Moreover, the model in