# A guaranteed passive model for multi-port frequency dependent network equivalents using network synthesis approach

Meysam Ahmadi a, *, Shengtao Fan a, Aniruddha M. Gole a, H. M. Jeewantha De Silva b

a Power Systems Research Group, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB, R3T 5V6, Canada
b Manitoba Hydro International, Winnipeg, MB, Canada, R3P 1A3

* Corresponding author. E-mail address: ahmadim3@myumanitoba.ca (M. Ahmadi).

**Keywords:** Brune synthesis, Tellegen synthesis, Electromagnetic transient simulation, Frequency dependent network equivalents, Passive network realization

**Abstract:** Frequency Dependent Network Equivalent (FDNE) models are used in both real-time and offline Electromagnetic Transient (EMT) simulation tools to capture the behavior of a large external network, thus eliminating the need to simulate the entire network in full detail. An important requirement for the FDNE is that it be passive to guarantee stability. In this work, a new approach based on Brune’s and Tellegen’s network realization methods is proposed for constructing FDNEs. This approach inherently guarantees the passivity of the realized network. Tellegen’s method is adapted and automated so it can be applied directly to the tabulated data of the impedance as a function of frequency. The feasibility of the proposed technique is validated through example case studies.

## 1. Introduction

A popular approach for simplifying the complexity of an Electromagnetic Transient (EMT) simulation is to model the study network of greater interest, which typically includes non-linear power system elements, e.g., HVDC converters, lightning arrestors, transformers with inrush currents etc., in full detail [1–8]. The remainder or “external” network is assumed to be linear and represented by a simpler Frequency Dependent Network Equivalent (FDNE). The term FDNE was first applied to this approach by Morched et al. [1]. An important requirement for the FDNE is that it displays an accurate response of the external network and still preserves the passivity of the network at all frequencies.

Time-domain modeling of a frequency-dependent network was initially done in the 1970s by Hingorani and Burbery [2] by fitting the scanned points from a frequency response plot of the original external network with several parallel RLC branches, whose combined impedance matches the driving point impedance frequency response of the external circuit. Concurrently, Clerici represented frequency-dependent Thevenin equivalent impedance of the network with simple type-I Foster realization [9] in order to do a switching surge study [3]. A wideband frequency model of such a network equivalent was introduced by Morched and Brandwajn in [4] using RLC parallel branches and considering series and parallel resonances in the network response scan. Que Do also introduced an iterative pole-removal procedure for the synthesis of one-port network equivalent impedances using series or parallel connections of selected RLC modular circuits [5,6]. Watson and Arrillaga in [7] have optimized Hingorani’s method of equivalent RLC branches for harmonic analysis using multi-variable optimization methods. Morched extended the approach to multi-port FDNEs for EMT programs using shunt RLC branches whose elements are being calculated through an optimization process [1]. The aforementioned network realization-based methods used pre-specified RLC structures, thus were proper for a low order fitting of just a few resonance peaks and suitable for early computers. Today, with much higher-powered computers, the significantly improved fitting becomes possible and in fact, is demanded.

Later mathematical approaches to fit the frequency-dependent responses were introduced. A $\pi$-type network is used in [10] to realize a low order equivalent network for an admittance matrix $Y(j\omega)$ those elements are first fitted by rational functions using a non-constraint optimization program. In [8] a high-frequency transformer model and in [1] a reduced-order model of a multi-port frequency-dependent network is generated by first approximating the FDNE by means of rational functions and then realize it in the form of an RLC network which could be directly used in EMTP.

Marti in [11], used Bode’s procedure [12] to model frequency-dependent characteristic impedance of a transmission line in the time domain by approximating the tabular function with zeros and poles at proper frequencies and form a rational function and then realizing it using Foster I networks.

Later, the powerful Vector Fitting (VF) approach was introduced by Gustavsen and Semlyen as a mathematical approach to curve-fit the frequency responses utilizing rational functions [13–19]. The rational function also can be modelled in EMT tools employing recursive convolution [20] or RLC branches [21].

matrix $Z(s)$. These steps are explained below for an n-port network [30].

### 2.1. Step 1- Removing the imaginary axis matrix of poles

If one or more of the elements of the impedance matrix $Z(s)$ has a pole at a certain frequency, it is considered as the pole of the whole matrix and should be removed in the form of a series network. Let the constant matrices $K_{\infty p}$, $K_{0p}$ and $K_{jp}$ represent the residues of the poles at frequencies $s = \infty$, $s = 0$ and $s = \omega_{jp}$ respectively as indicated in (9).