## A Harmonic Phasor Domain Co-Simulation Method and New Insight for Harmonic Analysis of Large-scale VSC-MMC based AC/DC Grids
**Dewu Shu**, Senior Member, IEEE, **Huiwen Yang**, Student Member, IEEE, **Guanghui He**, Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—Recently, frequency coupling oscillation events, such as harmonic oscillations, sub- and super-synchronous oscillations (S2SO), driven by multiple converters with different switching frequencies have brought new challenges of AC/DC grid modeling, despite the traditional one of improving the accuracy and efficiency. There is an urgent requirement of practical engineering projects to produce a modeling method that can produce instantaneous and harmonic phasor waveforms simultaneously, dedicated to harmonic interaction analysis of large-scale ac/dc grids. To realize the above-mentioned targets, the harmonic phasor domain (HPD) modeling of power electronic based dc grids is proposed. The HPD modeling is then combined and coordinated with EMT based ac-grid models based on the proposed HPD transmission line model (HPD-TLM). The overall HPD co-simulation is realized by the EMT based ac-grid models, HPD based dc-grid models, and HPD-TLM, which is governed by the decoupled and coordinated time sequences. The performance (efficiency and accuracy of instantaneous and harmonic phasor waveforms) for the HPD co-simulations is validated on practical large-scale VSC-MMC based AC/DC grids in China.

**Index Terms**—voltage source converter(VSC), modular multilevel converter (MMC), harmonic phasor domain (HPD), co-simulation, interface model

## I. INTRODUCTION
THE traditional power grids at the transmission level that are primarily controlled by electrical machines are gradually evolving into power electronic dominated systems, driven by the large-scale adoptions of electronic power converters for high voltage transmissions, such as the voltage source converter (VSC) and the modular multi-level converter (MMC), etc. [1]-[2]. This tremendous transformation paves the way towards more reliable, more flexible and more sustainable power grids, yet it also produces new challenges to the stability issues of power electronic dominated systems. For example, in the recent years, a number of incidents, such as harmonic oscillations [3]-[4], sub- and super-synchronous oscillations (S2SO) [5], etc., have been reported, where the undesired harmonics will cause the drop of the power transmission, and failures of control and protection systems of the converters. Consequently, a proper tool that can accurately carry out instantaneous harmonic analysis of steady-state and dynamic responses is highly desirable to analyze these wide frequency band and harmonic interactions and to emulate these oscillation scenarios.

Despite the electromagnetic stability small signal analysis method, such as the eigenvalue analysis [6] or the impedance based method [7]-[8], the time-domain simulation is still the ideal solution to reproduce the oscillation scenarios of large-scale VSC-MMC based AC/DC grids and reveal the typical influencing factors contributing to these oscillation scenarios. This is because: (1) the scale of the AC/DC grids is so large, such as hundreds or even thousands of node buses are contained in the ac system; (2) it is troublesome work to derive the small signal model for the practical and three level control and protection system of the HVDC, including the valve level, pole level and system level, etc.

Up to now, many attempts have been made to improve the simulation accuracy and efficiency, from the aspect of ac-grid modeling, to co-simulation schemes, etc., as given in Table I. Typical examples, such as the reduced order equivalent model [9], hybrid transient stability (TS)/electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulations [10]-[11], and transient stability-dynamic phasor-electromagnetic transient (TS-DP-EMT) hybrid simulations [12]-[14], etc. are proposed to reduce the computation burden of the large-scale AC grids. However, for hybrid TS and EMT simulations, wide frequency band and harmonic interactions cannot be captured; and even the TS-DP-EMT hybrid simulations cannot produce wide frequency band/harmonic phasors and instantaneous values simultaneously. It should be noted that for the studies of electro-magnetic interactions or the harmonic interactions, the EMT model is recommended for the AC grid, instead of the transient stability model. Consequently, to propose a simulation method that can produce the exact and accurate instantaneous value waveforms and instantaneous harmonic phasor waveform preserving the desired electro-magnetic dynamics is a tricky issue but an urgent requirement for harmonic interaction analysis.

*This work was supported in part by National Key Research and Development Program of China (2019YFE0102900), National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant 61674103, Shanghai Sailing Program*