# A High Frequency Transformer Model for the EMTP
A. Morched (SM) | L. Marti (M) | J. Ottevangers
Ontario Hydro, Canada

**Abstract** - A model to simulate the high frequency behaviour of a power transformer is presented. This model is based on the frequency characteristics of the transformer admittance matrix between its terminals over a given range of frequencies. The transformer admittance characteristics can be obtained from measurements or from detailed internal models based on the physical layout of the transformer. The elements of the nodal admittance matrix are approximated with rational functions consisting of real as well as complex conjugate poles and zeroes. These approximations are realized in the form of an RLC network in a format suitable for direct use with EMTP. The high frequency transformer model can be used as a stand-alone linear model or as an add-on module of a more comprehensive model where iron core nonlinearities are represented in detail.

**Keywords** - Transformer, High frequency, Frequency dependence, Electromagnetic transients, EMTP.

## 1. INTRODUCTION

The transformer is probably one of the most familiar components of a power system, but it is also one of the most difficult to model accurately. A recent survey comparing EMTP simulations with field measurements indicates that studies where transformer behaviour has the greatest influence on the results are those where EMTP simulations tend to be the least accurate [1].

To model a transformer in a transient simulation, nonlinear behaviour as well as frequency dependent effects must be taken into account. Standard EMTP transformer models such as BCTRAN and TRELEG can accurately reproduce the response of a transformer at the frequency at which the short-circuit and open-circuit tests are made; namely, at power frequency. However, these models do not account for the frequency dependence of copper and iron losses, or the effect of stray capacitances.

The behaviour of the transformer at higher frequencies can be approximated, to some extent, by modelling the distributed stray capacitances along the windings with lumped capacitances connected across the terminals of the transformer. This type of representation cannot reproduce the behaviour of the transformer beyond the first resonance frequencies. The calculation of the capacitances is not straightforward, and it is difficult to obtain accurate values, except for simple transformer designs [2], [3].

A substantial number of transformer models have been proposed to date. While it is probably inaccurate to categorize all work done in high frequency transformer modelling, it is convenient to identify two broad trends to describe the model presented in this paper within the context of earlier work.

**Detailed internal winding models.** This type of model consists of large networks of capacitances and coupled inductances obtained from the discretization of distributed self and mutual winding inductances and capacitances. The calculation of these parameters involves the solution of complex field problems and requires information on the physical layout and construction details of the transformer. This information is not generally available as it is considered proprietary by transformer manufacturers. These models have the advantage of allowing access to internal points along the winding, making it possible to assess internal winding stresses. In general, internal winding models can predict transformer resonances but cannot reproduce the associated damping. This makes this class of models suitable for the calculation of initial voltage distribution along a winding due to impulse excitation, but unsuitable for the calculation of transients involving the interaction between the system and the transformer. Furthermore, the size of the matrices involved (typically 100 x 100 or larger) makes this kind of representation impractical for EMTP system studies.

**Terminal models.** Models belonging to this class are based on the simulation of the frequency and/or time domain characteristics at the terminals of the transformer by means of complex equivalent circuits or other closed-form representations [4]-[6]. These "terminal" models have had varying degrees of success in reproducing the frequency behaviour of single-phase transformers accurately. The main drawback of the methods proposed to date appears to be that they are not sufficiently general to be applicable to three-phase transformers.

The high-frequency transformer model described here belongs to the class of models where the frequency dependent response at the terminals of the transformer is reproduced by means of equivalent networks. Unlike earlier frequency-dependent transformer models, the new model can simulate any type of multi-phase, multi-winding transformer as long as its frequency characteristics are known either from measurements or from calculations based on the physical layout of the transformer. The generation of the parameters for the model is automatic, and it does not require special skills on the part of the user. This model has been developed and implemented at Ontario Hydro as part of a new and comprehensive transformer model sponsored by the EMTP Development Coordination Group - DCG for the DCG/EPRI version of the EMTP. Although originally developed as a high-frequency representation, this model can also be used as a stand-alone linear model, if the frequency characteristics of the transformer are known over a sufficiently broad frequency range.

## 2. OVERVIEW

Consider a multi-phase, multi-winding transformer. The nodal equations which relate the voltages and currents at the accessible terminals are given by:

The elements of $Y_{ij}$ are approximated with rational functions which contain real as well as complex conjugate poles and zeroes. The rational functions can then be realized with RLC networks which can be combined using (4) and (5) to produce the parameters of the model.