## A Hybrid Simulation Tool for the Study of PV Integration Impacts on Distribution Networks
Ali Hariri, Student Member, IEEE, M. Omar Faruque, Senior Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—This paper introduces a hybrid simulation tool that is used to study the impacts of integration of photovoltaic (PV) systems on distribution networks. The tool is composed of an electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation tool interfaced with an open-source phasor analysis tool, OpenDSS. The purpose of this tool is to provide detailed modeling along with fast and accurate simulation of electric systems with interconnected PV systems. The developed tool models the PV energy system using detailed EMTP-type algorithms, while the rest of the distribution system is modeled in phasor domain using OpenDSS. This paper demonstrates some of the functions, applications, and advantages of the hybrid tool. The tool has been tested with a real Florida-based distribution feeder with multiple PV energy systems. A full EMT model of the feeder has been developed in SimPowerSystems to compare and validate the results. The results suggest that the hybrid tool offers significant benefits and functionality over OpenDSS.

**Keywords**—Electromagnetic transients, Power system simulation, Photovoltaic systems, Photovoltaic effects.

## I. INTRODUCTION
Power system simulations have always faced computational limitations due to the volume of the required mathematical operations, especially in complex networks [1]. Different computational tools and techniques have been developed to address these constraints [1]. The selection of a suitable simulation tool is generally dictated by the type of the study to be conducted. While quasi-static time-series (QSTS) simulation is the most frequently used technique for integration of distributed generation (DG) studies, the need for detailed study using EMT simulation is growing due to the complex dynamics introduced by the DG.

EMT simulation using digital computers was first set forth by H. W. Dommel [2] and it has been traditionally applied to power system transient analysis in circuits involving switching events. EMT simulation tools provide accuracy when a switching event occurs. QSTS simulations are phasor-based solutions that are much faster and require less computational power than EMT simulations. Consequently, QSTS simulation has gained acceptance as a way to study the preliminary impacts of DG integration.

EMT simulation is required for protection design, insulation coordination, fault rating, converter design, islanding detection, etc. On the other hand, QSTS simulations can be used for voltage regulation studies, reactive power management, storage management, etc. For this purpose, it is not always necessary to simulate the entire system in EMT; only the parts that require detailed study would require EMT simulation. Therefore, a hybrid simulation tool would be very useful to perform different types of studies where EMT is adopted with QSTS for certain parts of the network.

The concept of hybrid simulation is based on splitting the system into two subsystems modeled in different simulation engines based on the accuracy requirements of each part. The first digital hybrid simulator was proposed in 1981 by Heffernan et al. for AC/DC system simulation through combining transient stability analysis (TSA) and EMT programs [4]. Hybrid simulators involving TSA and EMT were first introduced for the analysis of power systems with high voltage direct current (HVDC) links [5]. Different hybrid tools were then developed to study transients in power systems involving flexible AC transmission system (FACTS) devices [6], static VAR compensator (SVC) devices [7], and HVDC systems [8], [9]. The development of hybrid simulation tools was accompanied with advancements in research areas that would help improve the accuracy and speed of hybrid simulation, for instance, in introducing frequency-dependent network equivalents [10], [6] and improving network equivalent circuits for specific applications [11]. Other improvements focused on the data interaction protocols [12], [13] such as introducing the parallel interaction protocols [14]. The most recent advancements in