# A link between EMTP-RV and FLUX3D for transformer energization studies

S. Dennetière a,∗, Y. Guillot a,1, J. Mahseredjian b,2, M. Rioual a,3

a EDF R&D, 1 avenue du Général De Gaulle, BP 408, 92141 Clamart Cédex, France  
b École Polytechnique de Montréal, C.P. 6079 succ. Centre-ville, Montréal, Québec, Canada H3C 3A7

∗ Corresponding author. Tel.: +33 1 47 65 31 79; fax: +33 1 47 65 39 11.  
E-mail addresses: sebastien.dennetiere@edf.fr (S. Dennetière), yves.guillot@edf.fr (Y. Guillot), jean.mahseredjian@polymtl.ca (J. Mahseredjian), michel.rioual@edf.fr (M. Rioual).  
1 Tel.: +33 4 75 72 89 53.  
2 Tel.: +1 514 340 4711x4870.  
3 Tel.: +33 1 47 65 33 76; fax: +33 1 47 65 39 11.

**Abstract**  
This paper presents a programmed link between the electromagnetic transients program EMTP-RV and the finite element field solver FLUX3D. The model created in FLUX3D is driven from simulation designs in EMTP-RV. The test cases presented in this paper demonstrate that the coupling method is numerically robust and with sufficient accuracy. This approach benefits from EMTP advantages in modeling large-scale networks and from field solver advantages for detailed representation of power transformer iron cores.

**Keywords:** EMTP, FLUX3D, Interface, Switching transients, Transformer transients

## 1. Introduction

The R&D Division of EDF performs since 1996 studies on transformer energizations, from the determination of palliative solutions for auxiliary transformers of power plants after a partial or total collapse of the network, to the reduction of stresses when energizing transformers of wind farms or those on hydraulic pumped-storage plants.

The energization of an unloaded power transformer may have undesirable effects on power quality and may damage the transformer.

For those purposes, the modeling of the transformer is a key issue, especially the phenomena involved in the iron core during energization. The transient modeling of transformer energization requires an accurate nonlinear model of the magnetic material and a detailed representation of the electrical network as presented in Refs. [1–3].

In most EMTP studies involving the energization of transformers, the transformer models are based on uncoupled single-phase units, to which a hysteretic model is added, in order to take into account the losses in the iron core (eddy current and iron losses). This model is also very useful for the representation of winding copper losses and can be efficiently used in EMTP statistical studies. It is however limited by the fact that it does provide a detailed representation of the iron core, from its geometrical and magnetic characteristics and therefore does not represent the coupling effect with high accuracy. Such a limitation will not affect simulation results in some cases, but may have a significant impact in other cases, depending on the connection type of the transformer windings.

A detailed representation of the iron core is needed to model the behavior of flux paths and saturation effects inside the core, the flow of fluxes inside and outside the transformer, especially in the case of five limb transformers. This representation is also useful to estimate the mechanical stresses generated by the flow of fault and inrush currents inside the transformer.

A field solver based on the finite element method (FEM) can accurately take into account the material nonlinearity, winding connections and material anisotropy. However, field solvers do not provide the variety of power system components needed for a large power network simulation with control systems, surge arresters and multiphase transmission lines. This paper is based on the idea of coupling (interfacing) two different modeling and computation approaches for a given simulation case and thus achieving higher precision as required. The interface applications are FLUX3D and EMTP-RV.

## 2. Coupling electrical circuit and magnetic field solvers

There are two different approaches for combining the solutions of field equations and circuit equations.

The first approach consists in developing a program that solves simultaneously field equations and circuit equations. The magnetic equations are solved using a formulation with the magnetic potential vector. The coupling is obtained by the conductor current expressed in terms of current density and flux linkage found from the potential vector (see Refs. [4,6–8]). The time-dependant differential system resulting from coupling is solved with step-by-step numerical integration. To take into account the magnetic and electric nonlinearities, a Newton–Raphson iterative procedure is used. This approach is disadvantaged for the simulation of complex and large power networks since it provides a limited number of network component models and is inherently less efficient for classical 3-phase transformer model with internal coupling. The representation of single-phase N-winding transformers for steady state and transient studies is straightforward [11].

Three-phase transformer models are usually based on the physical concept of representing windings as mutually coupled coils. The impedance or admittance matrices of the coupled coils can be easily derived from commonly available test data [12]. The models are

**Fig. 1.** Finite element method coupled to circuit equations in FLUX3D.