Received October 5, 2014, accepted November 13, 2013, date of publication November 24, 2014, date of current version December 9, 2014.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/ACCESS.2014.2374195

## Design and Construction of Arduino-Hacked Variable Gating Distortion Pedal
ANARGHYA ANANDA MURTHY1, NITISH RAO2, YATHEESHA RANGANAHALLI BEEMAIAH3, SUSHANTH D. SHANDILYA4, AND RANJITH BADARMANAHALLI SIDDEGOWDA5
1 Department of Mechatronics, Manipal Institute of Technology, Manipal University, Manipal 576104, India
2 Automotive Technology, Technical University Eindhoven, Eindhoven 5612 AZ, The Netherlands
3 Department of Mechanical, Don Bosco Institute of Technology, Visvesvaraya Technological University, Bangalore 560059, India
4 Department of Mechanical, JSS Academy of Technical Education, Visvesvaraya Technological University, Bangalore 560059, India
5 Department of Mechatronics, Manipal Institute of Technology, Manipal University, Bangalore 134113, India

Corresponding author: A. A. Murthy (anarghya.murthy@yahoo.com)

**ABSTRACT** This paper describes the distortion effects often used in an electric guitar. Distortion is an added effect in an electric guitar, which compresses the peaks of the sound waves produced by the musical instrument, to produce a large number of added overtones, which here is done by rigging up a circuit in collaboration with the Arduino UNO circuit board. The digital potentiometer controlled by the Arduino (microcontroller) was an improvement and was able to produce satisfactory results, as compared with the analog potentiometer without the Arduino control. The complex circuitry of a three-stage distortion circuit with the analog potentiometer was replaced by a digital potentiometer controlled by a microcontroller, with better results. This variable-gating distortion pedal has an added advantage of being compact, light, and inexpensive.

**INDEX TERMS** Amplifier, Arduino, digital potentiometer, distortion, microcontroller.

## I. INTRODUCTION
Distortion effects in an electric guitar is an additional sound effect, wherein the sound waves of the instruments are altered accordingly. The peaks of the sound waves are compressed during distortion effect, which results in adding more overtones to the system. Over-driving of the tube amplifiers result in the producing of the distorted guitar sounds, and hence the name gain is also given to the distortion effects.

Distortion effects are most commonly produced by effects pedal, also known as the distortion pedal which usually uses an analog circuitry to modify the electric guitar signals such as clipping and harmonic multiplication to result in a wide range of sounds. Modifying of the waveforms are generally termed as distortion, which is usually associated with having a negative consequence. But, in the context of music, distortion would refer to addition of newer frequencies by clipping of the amplifier circuits.

Clipping is a non-linear process such that the sound waves which are clipped would have varied values of amplitude and hence the newer frequencies are added to the system which were not present originally. There are two ways to achieve the clipping in an audio signal. Hard clipping and soft clipping. Hard clippings are used to clip the peak values of the amplitude, to abruptly flatten out the waveform resulting in harsh sounding at higher amplitudes, while the soft clippings are used to flatten the peaks gradually taking care of not including the harshness in sound and hence the name [1].

The stereo speakers are technically designed differently due to their mode of application as compared to the guitar speakers. The stereo speaker, including the public address speaker systems are required to produce the sound as clearly as possible, or in other words, with as little distortion as possible. On the other hand, the guitar speakers would want to only highlight some of the frequencies to bring in the effects and the tone of the distortion of the electric guitar, by enhancing those frequencies while the other unwanted frequencies are attenuated. As the power delivered to the guitar speaker system tends towards the maximum rated power of the system, interference of noise signals and fading of the tones are observed. A distortion pedal circumvents these problems by modifying the signal before it reaches the amplifier as the distortion circuit is placed before the main amplifier, hence fulfilling the job of a pre-amp. Overdrive circuits are also used to obtain the distortion effects in an electric guitar. The overdrive circuits amplifies the signals to such a high level that they exceed the ordinary input signal amplitude. Overdriving of the amplifier, results in clipping of the waveforms at the peak values and thus flattening them.

The one main difference between the distortion circuit and the overdrive circuit is that, irrespective of the level of volume, the distortion circuit clips and distorts the signal, whereas, the overdrive circuit gives clean sound for quieter volumes, and more harsh and distorted sound for higher volumes. Fig. 1, shows the classic distortion pedal, with the capabilities of reproducing dynamics of playing, from soft to hard distortions, and level and tone control to tailor the overall sound as desired.

and equalization. Experimental result shows that the system can be used as a MIDI synthesizer as well as a traditional guitar effector. While according to M Karjalainen [7] there is a need of a virtual analog modelling for the simulation of classic analog circuitry by DSP. He showed the use of wave digital filters in real-time simulation of vacuum-tube amplifier stages. D.J. Gillespie [8] introduced a novel method for the solution of guitar distortion circuits based on the use of kernels. The algorithm he proposed uses a kernel regression framework to linearize the inherent nonlinear dynamical systems created by such circuits and proposes data and kernel selection algorithms well suited to learn the requir