# A modified implementation of the Folded Line Equivalent transmission line model in the Alternative Transient Program

Jaimis S.L. Colqui$^{a,*}$, Luis Carlos Timaná$^{b}$, Pablo Torrez Caballero$^{a,c}$, Sérgio Kurokawa$^{d}$, José Pissolato Filho$^{a}$

$^{a}$ School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, State University of Campinas - UNICAMP, Av. Albert Einstein 400, Campinas, Brazil
$^{b}$ Department of Electronic and Telecommunications Engineering, Catholic University of Colombia, Av. Caracas 46 -13, Bogotá, Colombia
$^{c}$ Research and Development Center in Telecommunications - CPQD, R. Dr. Ricardo Benetton Martins 1.000, Campinas, Brazil
$^{d}$ Department of Electrical Engineering, São Paulo State University - UNESP, Av. Brasil 56, Ilha Solteira, Brazil

* Corresponding author. E-mail address: jaimis.leon@unesp.br (J.S.L. Colqui).

**Keywords:** Transmission line modeling, Electromagnetic transients, Folded Line Equivalent, EMT-type programs

**Abstract:** This paper proposes a modified implementation of the Folded Line Equivalent transmission line model to represent three-phase transmission lines. The Folded line equivalent decomposes a line into its open circuit and short circuit contributions. We propose an alternative orthogonal matrix to transform single-phase transmission line parameters, voltages, and currents to the Folded Line Equivalent domain. Because the proposed matrix is orthogonal, it can directly represent bidirectional transformations using circuit components in simulation software, such as the ATP-EMTP. First, the circuit implementation of Clarke’s matrix decouples a three-phase transmission line into its modes. Then, the circuit implementation of the proposed matrix decouples each mode into its open circuit and short circuit contributions. This paper proves that the proposed approach outputs similar results as those obtained by the Universal Line Model and the JMarti model in the simulation of transmission lines under open-circuit, energization, and fault conditions. However, because the proposed model does not derive from the method of characteristics, it can run with simulation times greater than the propagation delay of the transmission line. It is shown that the proposed approach outputs accurate results for time steps that are 10%, 100%, 200%, and 400% of the propagation delay of the transmission line. Thus, one major advantage of the proposed approach is that it can be used to reduce runtimes in the representation of short transmission lines in large complex networks by increasing time steps without compromising accuracy.

## 1. Introduction

Frequency-dependent cable and transmission line (TL) models have been widely used in the analysis of electromagnetic transients studies in power systems for fault detection [1], analysis of electromagnetic transients in the frequency domain [2], fault prevention [3], medicine [4], and other applications. These models are developed in the mode domain or directly in the phase domain. For instance, the ATP-EMTP implements the JMarti model, introduced in [5,6]. The JMarti model uses constant transformation matrices to decouple TLs. Constant transformation matrices are valid for ideally transposed TLs and provide good results for non-transposed TLs with vertical symmetry. However, constant transformation matrices do not provide good results for non-transposed asymmetrical TLs or multi-circuit TLs because of the frequency dependence of their components. For these cases, the frequency dependence of the transformation matrix must be taken into account. The Universal Line Model (ULM), introduced in [7], is one of the most accurate and general TL models. The ULM and the JMarti model are fundamentally different. The ULM accurately represents cables and TLs in the phase domain. As a result, many programs such as the PSCAD/EMTDC [8] and the Electromagnetic Transients Program-Restructured Version (EMTP-RV) [9] implement the ULM. Numerous TL models (including the ULM and the JMarti model) had derived from the method of characteristics. Models that had derived from the method of characteristics require (simulation) time steps to be smaller than the propagation delay of the TL. Therefore, the time step used in the simulation of complex power systems is limited to the propagation time of the shortest line. The Folded Line Equivalent (FLE) introduced in [10] addresses this issue. The FLE decomposes the nodal admittance matrix of the TL in two blocks that represent the open-circuit and short-circuit conditions of the TL. The Vector Fitting (VF) algorithm [11] fits rational functions to these blocks and imposes passivity, thus ensuring a stable and passive circuit [12]. The FLE had been applied to non-uniform TLs [13,14], combined with the propagation time to represent TLs [15] and cables [16]. The main advantage of the FLE is that it provides accurate results when the time step is greater than the propagation time of the TL, reducing execution times in the simulation of complex power systems. In contrast, other TL models require smaller time steps.

A time domain representation of the TL can be obtained by fitting $\mathbf{Y}_{nod}$ in (1). However, even for simple lines, the representation of the eigenvalues of $\mathbf{Y}_{nod}$ using fitting techniques is inaccurate [10]. To address this issue, Gustavsen and Semlyen have introduced in [10] the Folded Line Equivalent (FLE).