# A Multirate EMT Co-simulation of Large AC and MMC-based MTDC Systems
Dewu Shu, Student Member, IEEE, Xiaorong Xie, Senior Member, IEEE, Qirong Jiang, Member, IEEE, Gaopeng Guo, Ke Wang

## Abstract
This paper proposes a novel multi-rate co-simulation method to improve simulation efficiency of large-scale AC plus multi-terminal DC (MTDC) grids. In this method, the whole system is partitioned into different AC and MTDC subsystems. They each are simulated with different time-steps according to their requirements of accuracy. Unlike existing methods where simplified models are adopted, the proposed approach fully reserves both the detailed behavior of converters and the nonlinear dynamics of large-scale AC systems. To realize the coordination between different subsystems, updating and discretization of the interface models are significant to guarantee the overall numerical accuracy and stability of the co-simulation method. Accordingly, the interface models of the partitioned AC and DC networks are represented by time-varying Thevenin and Norton equivalents. To eliminate the aliasing or time delay errors, their parameters are derived using moving-window prediction, stepwise correction and averaging techniques. A numerical oscillation suppression algorithm is developed for the discretization of the interface model. Thus numerical stability is well guaranteed. The variables inside each subsystem as well as the interfaces, which are derived by augmented network equations (ANEs), are calculated simultaneously. The rate ratio of large AC and MTDC systems is determined based on our proposed criterion of electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation accuracy. The effectiveness of the co-simulation method is validated on a practical system integrating large AC and modular multilevel converter (MMC) based MTDC grids.

## Index Terms
Interface model, Interface error, Multirate co-simulation, MTDC system, Numerical stability.

## I. INTRODUCTION
MODULAR multilevel converters (MMC) have received wide acceptance in high-voltage direct-current (HVDC) transmission schemes due to its additional benefits include simple realization of redundancy, low losses, and most importantly, easy extension to multi-terminal (MTDC) configurations [1]. Many MMC-based MTDC transmissions have been carried out in China in recent years, such as Zhoushan and Nanao Project [2]. Therefore, studying the interaction between MMC-based MTDC systems and AC systems has become an important subject. Electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation is widely used for this purpose due to its capability of capturing the detailed dynamics of both converters and large AC systems [3]-[4].

Unfortunately, most established EMT software only allows users to simulate a large AC and MTDC system with the same time step, which is normally as small as several microseconds [3]. Such an unanimous small step would result in enormous computational burden. So it is generally insufficient for the conventional EMT software to simulate a huge AC system integrating MMC-based MTDC transmissions. Several system equivalent methods have been proposed to improve simulation efficiency. For instance, in [5], the DC grid is fully represented while the AC system is simplified into a fixed Norton or Thevenin equivalent. However, this method is of the obvious drawbacks of decreased accuracy and loss of nonlinear dynamics. Even worse, it would sometimes lead to misleading results [6]. MMC equivalent models, such as switch-function model [7], Thevenin equivalent model [8], have also been adopted for the same purpose. However, even if a simplified equivalent MMC model is used, the simulation would still be computationally cumbersome due to the huge scale of the external system. Therefore, a multirate co-simulation method is preferable when simulating large AC and MMC-based MTDC systems. In doing so, the entire system is divided into fast subsystems that contain MMC converters and slow subsystems including the AC systems. They each are simulated with different time steps instead of an unanimous one. As a result, computational efficiency can be considerably improved.

However, the modeling, updating and discretizing of the interfaces between different subsystems are key issues to guarantee the numerical accuracy and stability of the whole simulation. Typical multirate methods applied in power system EMT simulation include the waveform relaxation (WR) method [9] and the multi-area Thevenin equivalent (MATE) method [10]. One typical variation of multirate simulations is the hardware-in-the-loop (HIL) simulation [11], where these methods are particularly designed to improve the accuracy and efficiency of power electronic devices. Typical interface

This work was supported in part by the Major Program of the National Natural Science Foundation of China (51490683), the National Natural Science Foundation of C