# A Multi-rate Co-simulation of Combined Phasor-Domain and Time-Domain Models for Large-scale Wind Farms
Yupeng Li, Student Member, IEEE, Dewu Shu, Member, IEEE, Fan Shi, Zheng Yan, Yiying Zhu, Nengling Tai

**Abstract**—In the year 2015-2018, there are many sub- and super-synchronous interaction (S2 SI) events, happened in China. However, traditional transient stability models, electro-magnetic transient (EMT) models and hybrid TS and EMT simulation methods fail to capture the desired wide frequency band interactions between large-scale AC grids and wind farms. To accurately and efficiently capture wide frequency band interactions between AC grids and wind farms, a simulation method which can extend the time-step to 500µs and further adopt the multi-rate structure is highly required. For this objective, we propose a multi-rate co-simulation method, in which the target system is partitioned into electro-magnetic transient (EMT) and shifted frequency phasor (SFP) subsystems, represented by our proposed transformation based SFP models and the traditional EMT models, respectively. The simulation efficiency of simulating large-scale AC grids is significantly improved by adopting a much larger time-step. Further, the multi-rate multi-domain transmission-line model (MD-TLM) and the multi-rate frequency dependent MD-TLM are respectively proposed to reflect wide-band interactions between AC grids and wind farms. Eventually, the multi-rate co-simulation is implemented based on the efficient SFP models, network partitioning, and so-called the multi-rate (FD)-MD-TLM. The performance (efficiency and accuracy) of the proposed method has been fully validated on a practical system integrating large AC grids and wind farms.

**Index Terms**—multi-rate co-simulation, shifted frequency phasor (SFP) model, multi-domain transmission-line model (MD-TLM), frequency dependent.

## I. INTRODUCTION
WITH the increased integration of wind power, the flexibility and security of power grid face significant challenges. Recently, the sub-synchronous and super-synchronous oscillations aroused by the fixed series compensation (FSC), nearby doubly-fed induction generators (DFIGs) and the large-scale AC grids, has been detected in Texas of USA [1], [2] and Hebei Province of North China [3], resulting in drop-out of numerous wind turbine generators (WTGs) or even damage of crowbar circuits. Unlike the traditional shaft related sub-synchronous resonance (SSR) problems [4], such new events AC grids. Therefore, an efficient and accurate simulation method, which can capture detailed electro-magnetic transients of large-scale AC system integrating hundreds of wind turbine generators (WTGs) is highly necessary [5].

However, it is always a consuming task to simulate the large-scale wind farm related AC grids [6]. This is because: (1) a significant increase in the number of buses due to the expanding scale of AC grids and wind farms; (2) a much smaller time-step (usually as small as 2-50µs) to emulate detailed switching dynamic of each wind turbine; (3) the time-step of the whole system combining the large-scale AC grids and wind farms will be limited as a unanimous time-step, which would result in enormous computational burden.

Several system equivalent methods have been proposed to improve the simulation efficiency [7]. For instance, the AC grid is simplified as a fixed Thevenin or Norton equivalent circuit, where the wind farms are represented as their detailed electro-magnetic transient models [8]. The drawback is that the electro-mechanical dynamics of AC grids as well as interactions between AC grids and wind farms are totally neglected. On the hand, if the wind farm is represented as the aggregate model, i.e., all the wind turbines are simplified as one controlled current source model [9], the controllers of different wind turbines can not be modelled. More importantly, the inner dynamics of the wind farms aroused by frequency dependent components cannot be represented, which is important to capture wide-band frequency interactions between the AC grid and the wind farm. Several other methods, such as the transient stability and electro-magnetic transient (EMT) hybrid simulations [10]-[12], and multi-rate simulation method [7], dynamic phasor model [13]-[14], etc. have been proposed to accelerate the simulation speed of the large-scale AC grids incorporating wind farms. However, as the AC grid is represented as their corresponding transient stability model by using the hybrid simulation method, the EMT dynamics of the AC grid which are aroused by nonlinear