# A multi-area Thevenin equivalent based multi-rate co-simulation for control design of practical LCC HVDC system

Yupeng Li$^a$, Dewu Shu$^{a,*}$, Jingwei Hu$^a$, Zheng Yan$^a$, Yun Zhou$^a$, Haifeng Wang$^b$

$^a$ High-Performance Simulation Center, Key Lab of Control and Power Transmission and Conversion, Department of Electrical Engineering, Shanghai Jiaotong University, 200240 Shanghai, China
$^b$ State Grid Shanghai Municipal Electric Power Company, China

$^*$ Corresponding author. E-mail addresses: yupengli@sjtu.edu.cn (Y. Li), shudewu@sjtu.edu.cn (D. Shu), hujingwei@sjtu.edu.cn (J. Hu).

**Keywords:** Line commutated converter (LCC) based HVDC, Multi-rate co-simulation, Multi-Area Thevenin Equivalent (MATE), Commutation failure, Improved control strategy

**Abstract:** The line commutated converter (LCC) based HVDC transmission is often adopted to transmit the large capacity of renewable energy, however, it is threatened by several critical issues, such as, commutation failures (CFs). In order to reduce CFs and improve the recovery characteristics of the HVDC, improved control and protection strategies are always desirable. On the other hand, an accurate and efficient electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation method is highly necessary to design the so-called control strategy, where the traditional transient stability and EMT models cannot meet the accuracy and efficiency requirements simultaneously. To resolve these issues, a Multi-Area Thevenin Equivalent (MATE) based multi-rate co-simulation method is proposed, where the accuracy is guaranteed by the proposed MATE based transmission line model (MATE-TLM) and the efficiency is significantly improved by adopting several accelerating techniques, such as, the MATE-TLM and multi-rate co-simulation scheme. Further, a novel improved control strategy based on the concept of virtual impedance is proposed to reduce CFs and to increase the recovery speed of DC system. Simulation results of a practical AC/DC grid by the improved control strategy have well validated the effectiveness of the proposed MATE based multi-rate co-simulation method.

## 1. Introduction

With the increasing penetration of renewable energy, the line commutated converter (LCC) based HVDC is adopted to increase large capacity of renewable energy sources. However, several tough issues, such as the commutation failures (CFs), threaten the normal operation of the LCC based HVDC. Generally, CF occurs when a converter valve that is supposed to turn off keeps conducting without transferring its current to the next valve according to the firing sequence. CF can trigger temporary reduced transmission power, drop of DC voltage, over-current and sometimes longer duration serious transients, etc. These problems will become more severe when the LCC based HVDC is connected to a weak AC system. For example, the China Southern Grid recorded the continuous CFs of Guanyinyan HVDC project. This accident caused a reduction of over 3000 MW transmitted power by HVDC links and it caused the frequency stability issue at the inverter side. According to past experiences, CF should be carefully resolved by improving the control and protection schemes in order to guarantee the fault ride-through ability as well as the recovery characteristics after faults [1–6]. As a result, it is always required to propose advanced control and protection strategies to reduce CFs and improve the recovery characteristics of the HVDC.

Previous research work to reduce the CFs can be summarized in two categories: (1) the criterion to detect CFs: a power component fault detection method (PCD) is proposed to determine whether it is an asymmetric or symmetric fault [7]. Several indicators, such as Multi-Infeed Interaction Factor (MIIF), Effective Short Circuit Ratio (ESCR), etc., are proposed to evaluate the severity of the CFs [8–10]. (2) improved control strategy to reduce CFs: in [11,12], parameters of controllers are tuned based on the fuzzy logic technique in order to reduce CFs. However, the complexity of the co-called fuzzy logic will complicate the overall controllers [13]. Traditionally, the voltage-dependent current order limit (VDCOL) is adopted to lower the dc current order when the dc voltage is dropped. However, this method is not fast enough to lower dc current order and how to improve the VDCOL is an ongoing research topic. Another choice is the commutation prediction methods [14], which can effectively detect voltage sags due to AC side ground fault and prevent the potential commutation failure or even continuous commutation failure via increasing the extinction angle in advance. However, the increase of extinction angle will increase the consumed reactive power of the AC side unexpectedly.

Up to now, in order to design the desired control and protection strategies and study the interactions between the LCC based AC/DC grids, an accurate and efficient electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation method is highly necessary. However, in order to simulate the fast-switching dynamics of power electronic devices, the time-step of the traditional EMT simulation method is always limited under 20–50 μs. It increase the computational burden dramatically under a unanimous and tiny time-step of a traditional EMT program. The computational burden is increased due to the following reasons: (1) the system scale is dramatically increased by the large-scale AC grids; (2) the tiny time-step is restricted by the power electronic devices, such as the LCC. Therefore, a multi-rate co-simulation method is a desirable solution when simulating large-scale AC/DC system