# A new sequence domain EMT-level multi-input multi-output frequency scanning method for inverter based resources
Lei Meng $^{a,*}$, Ulas Karaagac $^{a}$, Keijo Jacobs $^{b}$
$^{a}$ Department of Electrical Engineering, Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hung Hom, Kowloon, Hong Kong
$^{b}$ Department of Electrical Engineering, Polytechnique Montréal, Montreal, QC, Canada

**Keywords:** CSD-scan, EMT-level frequency scanning, Impedance-based stability analysis, Mirror frequency effect

**Abstract:** The impedance-based stability analysis (IBSA) is an effective method for identifying instability issues caused by grid-connected inverter-based resources (IBRs). The electromagnetic transient (EMT)-level positive sequence and $dq$-frame frequency scanning methods ($p$-scan and $dq$-scan, respectively) are widely used to measure the impedance models of IBRs. The $p$-scan is easier to implement but has inaccuracy issue because it ignores the mirror frequency effect (MFE). The $dq$-scan is accurate but cannot differentiate the resonance and mirror frequencies. This paper proposes a new EMT-level coupled sequence domain (CSD) multi-input multi-output (MIMO) frequency scanning method (CSD-scan) in stationary frame. The CSD-scan usage in IBSA 1) accounts for the MFE; 2) differentiates the resonance and mirror frequencies; 3) requires no coordinates transformation for perturbation and measurement signals; 4) significantly reduces computational burden compared to the existing coupled sequence scanning method. This paper also demonstrates the impedance transformation relation between $dq$-domain and stationary frame CSD. The accuracy and time efficiency of the proposed CSD-scan is validated in both IBSA and EMT simulations on a weak grid test case incorporating full-size converter (FSC)-based wind park (WP) by comparing with $p$- and $dq$-scans.

## 1. Introduction
The wind and solar energy as well as the size of their generation units have dramatically increased in recent years. These renewables are normally connected to electrical grids through power electronic converters, and they are referred to as inverter-based resources (IBRs). Real-life incidents have shown that the controllers of IBRs can adversely interact with the series compensated or weakly tied AC grids in the sub-synchronous frequency range [1]. Therefore, there has been a growing interest in developing effective SSI identification tools and mitigation methods [2–15].

Various methods have been used such as the state-space-based assessment (SSA) [3–5,16] impedance-based stability analysis (IBSA) [5–8,17], and electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation-based assessment [18]. SSA is an effective method for interpreting the instability mechanism with the dominant eigenvalues of critical modes [16]. However, due to simplifications in the process of system linearization, state-space models might not represent the original system in full detail [3–5,16]. Moreover, it is not practical to apply the SSA to large-scale power systems [2].

Recently, IBSA has gained popularity due to its ease of implementation and suitability for use in large-scale power systems [2]. Highly accurate frequency dependent impedances/admittances of IBRs can be extracted from EMT-level simulations instead of simplified analytical models [5,7–10]. This method also allows extracting impedance characteristics of manufacturer-specific models (i.e., black-box models), hence it is widely used in engineering practices [2,7–10]. The time domain EMT simulation-based assessment is typically performed for representative scenarios to validate either the SSA or IBSA results.

The EMT-level positive-negative sequence frequency scanning ($p, n$-scan) was developed to obtain the single-input single-output (SISO) positive and negative sequence impedances of IBRs for IBSA. As the system is generally safe from the negative sequence interactions, usually only the positive sequence SISO IBSA is performed to identify the potential IBR instabilities. Due to its simplicity, the IBSA using the $p$-scan is widely adopted by transmission system operators (TSOs) [2,5,7,8].

However, the accuracy of sequence SISO IBSA has been recently questioned as it ignores the mirror frequency effect (MFE) in IBRs [11,12]. The MFE is generated by the asymmetry of the IBR due to the phase locked loop (PLL) and different outer-loop control strategies in $d$- and $q$-axis [11,13]. In [9,10], the $dq$ reference frame ($dq$-frame) multi-input multi-output (MIMO) admittance model is developed to account for the MFE in IBSA using the EMT-level $dq$-frame frequency scanning ($dq$-scan) method. However, the obtained $dq$ MIMO admittance model cannot distinguish between resonance and mirror frequencies ($f_r$ and $f_m$, respectively) as it incorporates both the super-synchronous positive and sub-synchronous negative sequence admittances. Identifying $f_r$ and $f_m$

**Table 1** Parameters of the wind power systems.
| Item | Param./ Expr. | Value |
|---|---|---|
| System frequency | $f_b$ | 60 Hz |
| Power base | $S_{base}$ | 833.5 MVA |
| Power level | $P_{PoI}$ | 0.90 p.u. |
| Reactive power | $Q_{PoI}$ | 0 p.u. |
| Voltage base | | |