## A New Approach to Represent the Corona Effect and Frequency-Dependent Transmission Line Models in EMT-Type Programs
Thassio Matias Pereira, Graduate Student Member, IEEE, and Maria Cristina Tavares, Senior Member, IEEE

**Abstract—**This paper presents an accurate and efficient model to represent the corona effect and frequency dependence of line parameters in electromagnetic transient simulations. The new method, named the voltage and frequency dependent line model (VFDLM), can be seen as a more general case of the well-known frequency-dependent (FD) or wideband (WB) line models, wherein the characteristic admittance and propagation function are considered voltage- and frequency-dependent parameters. The time domain traveling wave equations are solved using recursive convolutions and rational approximation through vector fitting (VF). Since the model can be represented by Norton equivalents, it is totally compatible with EMT-type programs. The model is validated through comparisons with three field measurement data available in the literature, and good agreement could be observed between them, showing that the VFDLM is a stable, efficient, and accurate approach to represent the corona effect in EMT-type programs.

**Index Terms—**Corona effect, transmission line modeling, frequency-dependent line model, EMT-type programs.

*Manuscript received 23 September 2021; revised 5 January 2022; accepted 17 February 2022. Date of publication 7 March 2022; date of current version 28 November 2022. This work was supported by the Research Agencies in part by CAPES under code-001, in part by CNPq under Grant 307237/2020-6, and in part by FAPESP under Grant 2019/20311-7. Paper no. TPWRD-01429-2021. (Corresponding author: Thassio Matias Pereira.)*
*The authors are with the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Campinas, Campinas, São Paulo 13083-852, Brazil (e-mail: thassio_matias@hotmail.com; ctavares@unicamp.br).*
*Color versions of one or more figures in this article are available at https://doi.org/10.1109/TPWRD.2022.3157163.*
*Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TPWRD.2022.3157163*

## I. INTRODUCTION
EMT-type programs are probably the most widespread simulation tools used to predict electric power system behavior under transient phenomena and are extensively used in insulation coordination studies. One of the main advantages of EMT-type programs is the capability to represent transmission lines (TLs) with low computational cost and good accuracy. Since its first version in 1969 [1], several line models have been proposed that can accurately represent the frequency dependence of line parameters [2], [3]. Despite this fact, these currently available models are not able to represent the corona effect directly in the transmission line formulation since the line is modeled as a linear component.

Due to the nonlinear nature of the corona effect, most of the approaches adopted to represent this phenomenon in wave propagation calculations are based on numerical solutions, such as the finite difference time domain (FDTD) [4], [5], finite element method [6], [7], or method of characteristics [8]. However, these approximations are not directly applicable to EMT-type programs since the line terminals cannot be represented by Norton’s equivalents.

The traditional approach to represent the corona effect in EMT-type programs consists of subdividing the TL into linear sections, and at each junction node, a shunt corona branch is placed. This procedure has been adopted in several works over the years and combined with different corona models [9]–[15]. A further improvement is achieved when nonlinear corona branches are implicitly represented, and the solution of the line equations is obtained using a recursive scheme [16], [17]. These approaches have as a common characteristic the fact that the corona effect is decoupled from the transmission line model and externally represented by lumped elements, which in fact is not consistent with the real physical nature of the phenomenon.

More recently, our previous research introduced the idea of a voltage-dependent line model (VDLM) in EMT-type programs [18]. The VDLM consists of a more general case of the Bergeron model, wherein the line capacitance and shunt conductance are modeled as voltage-dependent parameters. In addition to presenting a more realistic approach to the distributed nature of the corona effect, this model can encapsulate the representation of the corona effect directly into the line modeling, resulting in a more robust line model. Despite this fact, the VDLM still did not solve the proper representation of the frequency dependence of line parameters, which is a very important characteristic of fast transient simulations, such as lightning overvoltages.

In this context, the present paper expands the idea of VDLM and presents a voltage- and frequency-dependent line model (VFDLM). To be totally compatible with EMT-type programs, the VFDLM consists of a more general case of the well-established frequency-dependent (FD) [2] or wideband (WB) line models [3], with the difference that characteristic admittance and propagation function are taken as both voltage- and frequency-dependent parameters. In addition to representing the real distributed nature of the corona effect, the VFDLM couples the frequency dependence and corona representation directly into the line modeling, constituting a full and very robust line model. The VFDLM was validated through comparisons with three field measurement data available in the literature, and good agreement could be observed between them. Furthermore, the model proves to be a stable, accurate and efficient alternative to

**Fig. 1.** Incident and reflected current waves at transmission line ends k and m.

**Fig. 2.** Norton equivalents for WB line model representation.