# A New Procedure to Derive Transmission-Line Parameters: Applications and Restrictions
Sérgio Kurokawa, Member, IEEE, José Pissolato, Member, IEEE, Maria Cristina Tavares, Member, IEEE, Carlos Manuel Portela, Life Senior Member, IEEE, and Afonso J. Prado, Member, IEEE

Manuscript received December 1, 2004; revised March 1, 2005. This work was supported by Fundação de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado de São Paulo. Paper no. TPWRD-00566-2004.
S. Kurokawa and A. J. Prado are with Faculdade de Engenharia de Ilha Solteira, Universidade Estadual Paulista, Ilha Solteira 15385-000, Brazil (e-mail: kurokawa@dee.feis.unesp.br; afonsojp@dee.feis.unesp.br).
J. Pissolato and M. C. Tavares are with Universidade Estadual de Campinas, Campinas 13081-970, Brazil (e-mail: pisso@dsce.fee.unicamp.br; cristina@dsce.fee.unicamp.br).
C. M. Portela is with Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro (UFRJ), Rio de Janeiro 21941-972, Brazil (e-mail: portelac@ism.com.br).
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TPWRD.2005.852296

**Abstract**—The objective of this paper is to show an alternative methodology to calculate transmission-line parameters per unit length. With this methodology, the transmission-line parameters can be obtained starting from impedances measured in one terminal of the line. First, the article shows the classical methodology to calculate frequency-dependent transmission-line parameters by using Carson’s and Pollaczeck’s equations for representing the ground effect and Bessel’s functions to represent the skin effect. After that, a new procedure is shown to calculate frequency-dependent transmission-line parameters directly from currents and voltages of an existing line. Then, this procedure is applied in a two-phase and a three-phase transmission line whose parameters have been previously calculated by using the classical methodology. Finally, the results obtained by using the new procedure and by using the classical methodology are compared. The article shows simulations results for a typical frequency spectrum of switching transients (10 Hz to 10 kHz).

**Index Terms**—Electromagnetic transients, frequency dependence, modal transformation, phase domain, transmission line, transmission-line parameters.

## I. INTRODUCTION

The self and mutual impedances present in the overhead transmission-line equations in the frequency domain can be derived from the solution of Maxwell’s equations for the boundary conditions at the contact surfaces of the three relevant materials that are the conductor, air, and ground. Considering the different specific resistances, magnetic permeabilities, and dielectric permittivities of the materials, these expressions are integral functions of the frequency and the physical properties [1].

In the most usual procedures to evaluate line parameters, there are some explicit or implicit assumptions that imply in physical approximations. The approximations can be in respect to geometry simplifying or electromagnetic (EM) field behavior [2]. The geometric simplifying consists of assuming that the soil surface is plane, the line cables are horizontal and parallel among themselves, the distance between any pair of conductors is much higher than the sum of their radii, and the EM effects of structures and insulators are neglected. Some simplifying assumptions are usually made about EM-field behavior and these approximations imply that, in what concerns the transversal behavior of the line, the quasi-stationary EM-field simplification is assumed [2]. For historical and cultural reasons, the most used procedures to represent the ground assume that the ground may have a constant conductivity, is frequency independent, and has a dielectric permittivity that can be neglected. These assumptions are quite far from reality, and can cause inadequate line modeling. Except for very high electric fields, where significant soil ionization originates, soil electromagnetic behavior is essentially linear but the electric conductivity and electric permittivity are strongly frequency dependent [2].

There are situations where the above-mentioned simplifications cannot be assumed. An example of a situation in which physical properties can be changed is in the study of EM transients that include nonuniform lines that could be portions of transmission lines where the conductors are not parallel. This occurs as in the connection between an overhead line and a cable, or where the sag is significant, for instance, at the crossing of rivers and valleys [3].

In an existing transmission line in which the previously mentioned simplifications again cannot be assumed, the transmission-line parameters could be derived from measured transmission-line impedances. As mentioned in [4], there are some practical difficulties to measure the frequency response of a transmission line. First, it requires a strong motivation to get the consent from a power utility to make an outage of a long transmission line. Second, the experimental setup may be nontrivial. Frequency measurement requires a voltage source with variable frequency and high power. Due to difficulties mentioned above, the procedure developed in this paper has been used in transmission lines represented by digital models.

This paper proposes a methodology to calculate longitudinal and shunt parameters per unit length of overhead transmission lines starting from the impedances measured at the line terminal. This paper provides results for a two-phase line and for an untransposed three-phase 440-kV, 500-km transmission line. Longitudinal and transversal parameters calculated by using traditional methodology and by using the methodology developed