# A Novel Interfacing Technique for Distributed Hybrid Simulations Combining EMT and Transient Stability Models

Dewu Shu, Student Member, IEEE, Xiaorong Xie, Senior Member, IEEE, Qirong Jiang, Member, IEEE, Qiuhua Huang, Chunpeng Zhang

**Abstract**—The steady increase of power electronic devices and nonlinear dynamic loads in large scale AC/DC systems desperately requires an efficient simulation method. However, the traditional hybrid simulation, which incorporates various components into a single EMT subsystem, causes great difficulty in network partitioning and significant deterioration in simulation efficiency. To resolve these issues, a distributed hybrid simulation method is proposed in this paper. The key factor leading the success of this method is a distinct interfacing technique, which includes: i) a new approach based on the two-level Schur complement to update the interfaces by taking full consideration of the couplings between different EMT subsystems; and ii) a combined interaction protocol to further improve the efficiency while guaranteeing the simulation accuracy. The improved performances of the proposed method in terms of efficiency and accuracy have been verified by the simulation studies on the modified IEEE 39 system as well as a practical AC/DC system, both of which consist of a two-terminal VSC-HVDC and nonlinear dynamic loads.

**Index Terms**—Distributed hybrid simulation, electromagnetic transient, two-level Schur complement, VSC-HVDC.

## I. INTRODUCTION

At present, many converter-based power electronic devices are connected to the AC grids, and have greatly changed the dynamic characteristics of the whole power systems [1]-[4]. In order to accurately and efficiently analyze the interactions between these power electronic devices and the AC grids, as well as to acquire the overall dynamics of the power systems, the hybrid simulation combining electromagnetic transient (EMT) and transient stability (TS) simulations is widely used [5]-[6]. In doing so, a procedure named network partitioning is carried out to partition the whole system into a Central-TS subsystem and multiple EMT subsystems. Notably, the EMT subsystems incorporate power electronic devices and nonlinear dynamic loads, thereby the electromagnetic transients are required to be represented in details [7]. In contrast, the Central-TS subsystem predominantly contains the AC grids, for which the electromechanical transients are of much more concern. Such different focuses on system dynamics drive the Central-TS and EMT subsystems to be simulated with separate TS and EMT programs. In this way, the interactions among subsystems are conveyed through the interface models so that the overall dynamics of the power system could be analyzed.

In previous studies of the hybrid simulation, the scale of the EMT subsystem is usually small, thus all power electronic devices and nonlinear dynamic loads can be included in a single EMT subsystem [5]-[9]. However, as their numbers increase rapidly in modern power systems, the EMT subsystem needs to be expanded substantially in order to contain all of them. Consequently, network partitioning becomes very difficult. Inappropriate selection of partitioning location would cause numerical instability problems [2]. Moreover, the overall simulation efficiency and accuracy could be deteriorated significantly.

To address the above challenges, the concept of distributed hybrid simulation has been proposed [10]. In light of this concept, the power electronic devices and nonlinear dynamic loads are arranged into different EMT subsystems. Each subsystem is simulated with its own EMT program, while the remaining AC grids are placed in the Central-TS subsystem and simulated with the TS program. The simulation program corresponding to each subsystem can be deployed in one or several computers and executed in a parallel and coordinated way. The variables and parameters of interface models between different subsystems are updated and then transferred through a certain communication protocol (e.g., TCP/UDP socket server[11]) in local area networks (LAN). The key to realize the distributed hybrid simulation is the interfacing technique, which includes three core issues, namely, TS/EMT models, interface models their update strategy, and the interaction protocol [2], [10]. As for the TS model, either positive-sequence [5], [9], [12] or three-sequence [13]-[15] equivalent models are used. It worth n

*This work was supported in part by the Major Program of the National Natural Science Foundation of China (51490683), the National Key Research and Development Program of China (2016YFB0900104), and the Research Project on Key Technologies and Demonstration Application of Flexible Coordinated Control of Electromagnetic Loop Network in Metropolitan Power Grid with High Load Density under Grant GZHKJ 00000101 (Corresponding*