# A Novel Linking-Domain Extraction Decomposition Method for Parallel Electromagnetic Transient Simulation of Large-Scale AC/DC Networks
Tong Duan, Student Member, IEEE, Venkata Dinavahi, Fellow, IEEE

**Abstract**—Domain decomposition of the network conductance matrix is one of the efficient approaches to solve large-scale networks in parallel, wherein the most commonly-used non-iterative method is the Schur complement (SC) method. However, the SC method could not obtain the network conductance matrix inversion directly, and the computational cost will increase fast when the overlapping domain expands. In this work, a novel Linking-Domain Extraction (LDE) based decomposition method is proposed, in which the network matrix is expressed as the sum of a linking-domain matrix (LDM) and a diagonal block matrix (DBM) composed of multiple block matrices in diagonal. Through mathematical analysis over LDM, one lemma about the nature of LDM and its proof are proposed. Based on this lemma, the general formulation of the inverse matrix of the sum of LDM and DBM can be found using the Woodbury matrix identity, and based on the formulation the network matrix inversion can be directly computed in parallel to significantly accelerate the matrix inversion process. Test systems were implemented on both the FPGA and GPU parallel architectures, and the simulation results and speed-ups over the SC method and Gauss-Jordan elimination demonstrate the validity and efficiency of the proposed LDE method.

**Index Terms**—Circuit simulation, electromagnetic transients, field programmable gate arrays, graphics processors, inverse matrix calculation, network decomposition, parallel processing.

## I. INTRODUCTION

ELECTROMAGNETIC transient (EMT) simulation is a paramount tool to study the electrical system’s behavior and reproduce the transient waveforms prior to manufacturing and deployment [1]. Typically, in EMT simulation a specific circuit can be formulated as a set of linear equations or differential equations (when containing dynamic elements such as inductors and capacitors) of unknown state variables [2], [3]; solving these equations requires discretizing them (i.e., modeling the dynamic circuit elements in discrete time) and solving the resulting linear algebraic equations.

Most EMT programs use Gaussian Elimination or LU factorization method to solve the linear algebraic equations. However, the simulation process slows down significantly when the circuit scale expands, especially for large-scale AC/DC grids where the MMC converters composed of hundreds of submodules generate a large matrix. The essential problem is that the computational complexity of direct matrix inversion or solving linear algebraic equations using other related algorithms such as the Gauss-Jordan elimination method is $O(N^3)$, which result in an extremely high latency for large-scale networks. To deal with the complexity of simulating large-scale systems, network domain decomposition [4] is a commonly-used method that splits the large network into small subsystems to simulate them in parallel. One main challenge of using domain decomposition is how to uncouple the inter-connected subsystems, which leads to two representative categories of decomposition methods [5]: overlapping domain decomposition and non-overlapping domain decomposition. In overlapping domain decomposition, the basic logic is to allocate the overlapping domain between two connected subsystems (multiple subsystems have the same procedure) into both subsystems, so that each subsystem can compute the values of the overlapping domain simultaneously. However, to obtain the correct values of the overlapping domain, data exchange and iteration are required to guarantee the difference of results between the two subsystems are smaller than a predetermined threshold. In addition, when the number of decomposed subsystems increases, the convergence time will become much longer, and thus the overlapping domain decomposition method is not the scope of this work.

In non-overlapping domain decomposition, the decomposed subsystems have no overlapping domains thus they could be simulated in parallel while not requiring iteration to synchronize the connected subsystems. For the non-overlapping domain decomposition, the most widely-used methods are the transmission line modeling (TLM) [6], [7], latency insertion method (LIM) [8], [9] and Schur Complement (SC) method [5]. The TLM and LIM methods are latency-based decomposition methods, which leverage the transmission latency between two ends of a line or the latency produced by the LC circuits to decompose the network. Both methods need to consider the simulation time-step size. For example, if the transmission latency of a line is smaller than the time-step size, then the