# A Novel Substation Back-up Protection Based on Communication Channel of Pilot Protection
Xiangping Kong, Zhe Zhang, Fei Wang, and Xianggen Yin, Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—In order to solve the problems of traditional distance protection when it is used as back-up protection, a novel substation back-up protection scheme based on communication channel of pilot protection is proposed. According to comprehensive decision-making result of action states of protections in local substation and fault detection information transmitted by adjacent substations, the functions of proposed substation back-up protection are realized. Finally, a simulation model of IEEE 10-generator-39-node system is built in PSCAD/EMTDC to test the performance of proposed substation back-up protection. Simulation results show the proposed substation back-up protection has excellent performance even in condition of fail-to trip of primary protection, DC power supply failure and heavy flow transfer. The proposed substation back-up protection can quicken the tripping of back-up protection and improve sensitivity.

**Index Terms**—communication channel of pilot protection, fault detection information, substation back-up protection, traditional back-up protection.

## I. INTRODUCTION
Distance protection is usually used as back-up protection for EHV and UHV transmission lines. Especially the zone 3 distance protection can be used as local back-up protection for local line and remote back-up protection for adjacent lines. But the time delay of zone 3 distance protection will be too large as it should be set to coordinate with zone 2 or zone 3 distance protection of the adjacent lines. Meanwhile, sensitivity of traditional distance protection is influenced by branch currents, and it will be insufficient in some conditions. Moreover, the cascading tripping of distance protection may be caused in condition of heavy flow transfer [1], [2]. In recent years, wide area back-up protection [3]-[6] is proposed to solve the problems of back-up protection. However, it needs to collect information of multi point synchronously. Wide area communication system is needed to realize communication in the whole power grid. The reliability and synchronization can not meet the requirements. Hence, the wide area back-up protection is difficult for practical application and the study of wide area back-up protection is still at exploration stage.

With the wide application and popularization of smart substation, the unified data modeling and data communication system in substation are realized based on IEC 61850 [7]. In this condition, the information sharing of equipments in bay level provides possibility to improve the traditional back-up protection. While, back-up protection scheme which is based on IEC 61850 can only collect information in local substation which has little improvement on conventional back-up protection. In order to improve performance of back-up protection greatly, it needs to get the information of adjacent substations.

As primary protection for EHV and UHV transmission lines, pilot protection uses private or multiplex fiber channel with bit rate of 2 Mbit/s as communication channel [8]. At present, the fiber channel is only used to transmit sample values or phasors and a few action states of protections which will be used for primary protection. Therefore, the transfer capability of fiber channel is not fully utilized. Actually, fiber channel can be used to transmit multi information. Hence, under the precondition that the requirement of information transmission of pilot protection is satisfied, there still is redundant capability which can be used to transmit other information.

Based on it, a novel substation back-up protection scheme which can improve the performance of traditional distance protection is proposed. This novel substation back-up protection uses the existing fiber channel of pilot protection to transmit auxiliary information for the decision-making of back-up protection. Compared to wide area back-up protection, new communication channel is not needed for substation back-up protection. Meanwhile, it is much easier to ensure the synchronization of substation information and the reliability is higher. Hence, the proposed substation back-up protection is applicable for engineering application. Section II introduces the basic principle of proposed substation back-up protection, including principle of fault detection and decision-making principle of tripping strategy. Detailed algorithm of fault detection and decision-making algorithm of substation back-up protection are presented in Section III. At last, simulations in PSCAD/EMTDC are carried out to test the performance of proposed substation back-up protection.

This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 51177058).
X.P. Kong, Z. Zhang, F. Wang and X.G. Yin are with State Key Laboratory of Advanced Electromagnetic Engineering and Technology, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430074, China (e-mail: kongxphust@163.com; zz_mail@163.com; whuwf2010@126.com; xgyin@mail.hust.edu.cn).

## II. BASIC PRINCIPLE
In order to realize the functions of substation back-up protection, substation back-up protection decision-making unit should be installed in each substation. The function of substation protection decision-making unit comprises two parts: fault