# A Parallel Multi-Modal Optimization Algorithm for Simulation-Based Design of Power Systems
A. Y. Goharrizi, Member, IEEE, R. Singh, A. M. Gole, Fellow, IEEE, S. Filizadeh, Senior Member, IEEE, J. C. Muller, R. Jayasinghe, Member, IEEE

**Abstract**— This paper proposes a parallel multi-modal optimization algorithm that is combined with electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation in a platform that unifies the set-up, test, and execution of optimal designs for power systems. The algorithm speeds up the design of power systems as its computations can be executed independently on a highly parallelized environment. Additional speed-up is achieved by using a surrogate model to estimate the objective function in regions of suspected local optima. The estimated functions can be used in the subsequent stages of post-optimization studies such as sensitivity analyses. Comparative studies in terms of computation time are conducted against sequential execution of the proposed algorithm. The optimal design of a VSC-HVDC transmission is described to demonstrate the capabilities of the proposed algorithm.

**Index Terms**—Multi-modal optimization, grid computation, power systems transient simulation, simulation-based design.

*This work was supported in part by the Industrial Research Chair (IRC) Program of the Natural Sciences and Engineering Council (NSERC) of Canada, and by the University of Manitoba.*
*A. Y. Goharrizi, S. Filizadeh and A. M. Gole are with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB R3T 5V6, Canada (e-mail: yazdanpa@myumanitoba.ca, shaahin.filizadeh@umanitoba.ca, gole@ee.umanitoba.ca).*
*R. Singh, J. C. Muller and R. Jayasinghe are with the Manitoba HVDC R*

## I. INTRODUCTION
Simulation-based optimization is a supportive method in the design of complex engineering systems, where the objective function (OF) to be optimized is only available in “black box” form, and cannot be explicitly expressed as a mathematical equation in terms of the variables to be optimized [1]-[5]. This method has been widely used for the design of complex engineering systems, such as power electronic systems [4]-[5], fluidics [6], propulsion systems [7], large-scale wireless sensor networks [8], and hybrid vehicles [9]. A common feature among all these engineering applications of simulation-based design is that deriving an explicit formulation for the objective function in terms of design variables is not practically possible; therefore, the unattainable (or unavailable) explicit objective function is replaced by a simulation model, which evaluates the objective function for a given set of variables, and hence the term black-box optimization [11].

A non-convex optimization problem often has multiple solutions (local optima); a property commonly referred to as multi-modality [12]-[13]. The simpler optimization algorithms are only capable of searching for a local optimum, whereas more complex algorithms exist that are designed to search for the globally optimal solution [14]. Another class of optimization algorithms is capable of searching for multiple local (and global) optima simultaneously [13]. These “multi-modal algorithms” may provide additional practical benefits [16]. For example, the global optimum may not be suitable because the objective function may be excessively sensitive to parameter variations [10], in which case some other local optimum that is less parameter-sensitive may be preferred [17]-[18].

One challenge with multi-modal algorithms is that they require significant computation time. This paper proposes a novel multi-modal optimization algorithm, which is particularly suited to parallel implementation. Parallel execution of optimization algorithms has been proposed as a means to expedite simulation-based optimal design [19] particularly when evolutionary optimization algorithms are used [20]-[22]. However, use of parallelism has not been exploited in multi-modal optimization for power systems design. The proposed algorithm has significantly higher computational speed than its sequential version and hence can greatly shorten the design cycle. It also generates an inventory of sample points on the objective function surface, which can be readily used for assessment of the sensitivity of the optimal solutions to parameter variations.

The paper demonstrates the proposed approach with a design example in which a voltage-source converter (VSC) based high voltage direct-current (HVDC) transmission system is optimized to provide fast dynamic response for the power order while reducing the dc voltage ripple and dc power transient and steady state error. The proposed algorithm is also compared with sequential computing to clearly show the efficiency of the new approach.

## II. DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED PARALLEL MULTI-MODAL ALGORITHM
Fig. 1 shows a flowchart of the proposed parallel multi-modal optimization algorithm. The algorithm includes five stages of (i) initialization, (ii) localization, (iii) objective function estimation, (iv) density increment, and (v) convergence check. Note that from Fig. 1 many of the steps