## A Probabilistic Approach for Secondary Arc Risk Assessment
Jose H. Vivas Nava, Member, IEEE, Richard A. Rivas, Member, IEEE, and Alberto J. Urdaneta, Senior Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—A probabilistic methodology for secondary arc extinction time calculations is presented. The proposed approach permits the calculation of the probability of secondary arc extinction as a function of time and represents an extension of the well-known deterministic model proposed in [1], where the extinction time is obtained from EMTP-type simulations and groups of secondary arc reignition voltage curves. Instead of using only one pessimistic characteristic, a probability distribution is evaluated to randomly select the reignition voltage curve to use for each calculation. As opposed to the deterministic methods, the proposed probabilistic approach allows the assessment of the risk undertaken by a power system under different single-pole reclosing time schemes and distinct weather conditions alike.

**Index Terms**—Electromagnetic Transients Program, reclosing time, risk assessment, secondary arc, single-pole switching.

### NOMENCLATURE
- Positive and zero sequence capacitances per unit length, respectively.
- Delayed unit step function, which has value equal to zero when [condition], and a value equal to one when [condition].
- Magnitude of fault primary current.
- Nominal steady-state value of secondary arc current (in A rms).
- Primary arc dependent part of the arc reignition voltage.
- Secondary arc component, dependent on the arc reignition voltage.
- Arc length time variation characteristic.
- Line length.
- Insulator string length.
- Probability function of secondary arc extinction.
- Time variable, measured after the initiation of the primary arc.
- Duration of primary fault.
- Time of any arc extinction (either intermediate or final), measured from the time of initiation of secondary arc current.
- Line-to-neutral nominal voltage.
- Secondary arc reignition voltage per unit length (in volts per meter).
- System frequency (in rad/s).

Manuscript received September 28, 2000. This work was supported in part by “Consejo Nacional para el Desarrollo de las Investigaciones Científicas y Tecnológicas (FONACIT),” Caracas, Venezuela.
The authors are with the Departamento de Conversión y Transporte de Energía, Universidad Simón Bolívar, Caracas 89000, Venezuela (e-mail: jhvivas@usb.ve).
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TPWRD.2003.820426

## I. INTRODUCTION
SIGNIFICANT research has been conducted to assess and improve the performance of single-pole switching (SPS) of overhead transmission lines [2]. However, after a short circuit on one phase of a transmission line, when only the circuit breakers of the faulty phase open, the transition from a high current (primary arc) to a low current (secondary arc) can jeopardize the security of the power system.

This low current, maintained by the mutual electromagnetic coupling between the healthy phases and the faulty phase, requires consequently SPS to be delayed until the final self-extinction of the secondary arc.

The secondary arc extinction time depends on factors such as arc length time variation speed and recovery voltage of the insulation, in this case, air. At the same time, those factors are affected by weather conditions such as temperature, humidity, rain, pressure, and wind speed.

Traditionally, a secondary arc reignition voltage characteristic obtained from the most adverse weather conditions (e.g., extremely slow or almost zero wind speed), has been utilized to simplify the problem and predict a pessimistic extinction time. This technique was proposed by Johns and Al-Rawi [1], [3] and uses the field test results reported by Haubrich, et al. [4].

A random behavior, such as the one associated with the secondary arc extinction time, can be evaluated mathematically through a statistical approach. Therefore, given a universe of secondary arc reignition voltage curves, a universe of secondary arc extinction times can be generated by randomly changing the arc reignition voltage curve associated with each different weather condition. Subsequently, the results of such simulations can be applied to assess, from a probabilistic point of view, the risk undertaken by a power system under the influence of different single-pole reclosing time schemes.

In order to develop a probabilistic method for secondary arc calculations, the following steps are followed: First, a new set of secondary arc reignition voltage characteristics is developed. Then, a statistical approach to evaluate secondary arc extinction times is formulated. Finally, results obtained are compared with those of field tests reported in the technical literature.

## II. DEVELOPMENT OF ARC REIGNITION VOLTAGE CHARACTERISTICS
In this work, the ideas developed in [1] and [3] are applied. The creation of a new set of secondary arc reignition voltage characteristics suggests that information relating secondary arc extinction times to different weather conditions should be used. Haubrich [4] reported the results of many field and laboratory tests, in which secondary arc currents are associated with their respective extinction times. Johns [1], [3] summarized those results to develop the reignition voltage characteristic of a secondary arc model.

### A. Data
Fig. 1 depicts the time limits of the field test results reported