## A State Variables Elimination-Based EMTP-Type Constant Admittance Equivalent Modeling Method for Power Electronic Converters
Mingwang Xu, Member, IEEE, Wei Gu, Senior Member, IEEE, Yang Cao, Graduate Student Member, IEEE, Shuaixian Chen, Student Member, IEEE, Fei Zhang, and Wei Liu, Senior Member, IEEE

Mingwang Xu, Wei Gu, Yang Cao, Shuaixian Chen, and Fei Zhang are with the School of Electrical Engineering, Southeast University, Nanjing 210096, China (e-mail: 230228745@seu.edu.cn; wgu@seu.edu.cn; 230228738@seu.edu.cn; 220232912@seu.edu.cn; zhangfei@seu.edu.cn).
Wei Liu is with the School of Automation, Nanjing University of Science and Technology, Nanjing 210094, China (e-mail: wliu@njust.edu.cn).

**Abstract**—Currently, a multitude of power electronic devices are connected to the grid, and the safe and stable operation of the grid depends on the analysis of electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation technology. This paper proposes a state variables elimination-based EMTP-type constant admittance equivalent modeling method for power electronic converters. The method employs a three-layer architecture consisting of ‘network-nodal voltages-historical current source’. The low-order equivalent nodal voltage equation is generated by using matrix splitting and adding output equations. The proposed method is distinguished by a constant admittance matrix and the consideration of internal characteristics, which facilitates straightforward access to external circuit, low time-complexity, and uncomplicated modeling procedures in comparison with the classical node elimination method (NEM). Furthermore, it exhibits a degree of generality regarding modular and unitized electrical equipment. The accuracy of the proposed method is validated by comparison with the off-line EMT simulation and experiments. The test results demonstrate that the proposed method exhibits high accuracy and efficiency in a variety of scenarios.

**Index Terms**—EMT equivalent modeling and simulation, state variables elimination, power electronic converters, simulation accuracy and efficiency.

*Received 4 June 2024; revised 9 October 2024; accepted 1 February 2025. Date of publication 6 February 2025; date of current version 20 March 2025. This work was supported by the Jiangsu Industry Outlook and Key Technology Research under Project BE2023093-3. Paper no. TPWRD-00944-2024. (Corresponding author: Wei Gu.)*

## I. INTRODUCTION
### A. Motivation
The expansion of new type power systems has resulted in a heightened integration of power electronic equipment within power systems. The precise delineation of the dynamic behavior of power electronic devices is inextricably linked to the electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation technology, given their rapid dynamic characteristics [1], [2]. The EMT simulation represents the primary means for evaluating stable and secure operation concerns in power systems [3].

The use of detailed models for the simulation of complex systems is often hindered by efficiency issues [4]. For instance, the off-line simulation software PSCAD/EMTDC is unable to simulate a 100-megawatt photovoltaic power plant (PVPP) for 1 second with a 10 μs simulation time-step without exceeding the 3-hour mark, thereby reducing research efficiency. Therefore, it is crucial to investigate efficient and accurate EMT equivalent modeling and simulation methods.

### B. Literature Review
In the field of converter modeling, a general modeling method based on response matching is proposed in [5], which performs well in real-time simulation. Besides, a compensation current source is proposed to be used in [6]. These models all concentrate on the modeling of power electronic switches. The [7], [8] and [9] proposed equivalent low-dimensional models of modular multilevel converter (MMC) and power electronic transformer (PET) have been demonstrated to achieve a noteworthy reduction in node size when solving intricate power electronic topologies, and to have a considerable acceleration effect. Nevertheless, none of these models exhibits a constant admittance matrix.

In the field of cluster modeling, the approach considers accuracy and simplification, providing a practical reference for the construction of a simplified equivalent model of PVPP. The basic idea is to group PV generators with similar dynamic characteristics into the same cluster [10], [11], [12]. However, this kind of method is not sufficiently refined and does not fully consider the internal dynamic characteristics of converter.

The traditional average model (AVM) is a method of constructing the state equation of a voltage source converter (VSC) by averaging the switching period [13], [14]. This approach ignores the switching action, which can greatly improve the simulation efficiency. However, its accuracy is not high and it can only describe the average external characteristics. In order to enhance the AVM, a novel approach has been proposed in [15] which involves the utilization of frequency-dependent averaged models for DC-DC converters. These models can improve the accuracy of the steady-state. In addition, a piecewise average-value model of PWM two-level VSC is proposed in [16]. A VSC model based on pulse voltage-current source pair is proposed in [17], and the corresponding solution algorithm is designed.

variables. The method employs a three-layer architecture consisting of ‘network-nodal voltages-historical current source.