# A state-space approach for accelerated simulation of modular multilevel converters

**Jinli Zhao** $^a$, **Manjiang Li** $^a$, **Xiaopeng Fu** $^{a,*}$, **Peng Li** $^a$, **Jean Mahseredjian** $^b$

$^a$ State Key Laboratory of Smart Power Distribution Equipment and System, Tianjin University, Tianjin 300072, China  
$^b$ Department of Electrical Engineering, Poly-technique Montréal, Montréal, Québec H3T 1J4, Canada  

**Keywords:** Modular multilevel converter (MMC), State-space, Electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation, Acceleration model

**Abstract:** Modular multilevel converter (MMC) based high-voltage direct current (HVDC) transmission technology has been widely applied in practical engineering. With the continuous increase in transmission voltage and capacity, a growing number of MMC submodules (SMs) is utilized. To meet the demands for fast electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation of large-scale power electronic systems, this paper proposes a simulation acceleration approach based on the state-space framework and applies it to MMCs. By grouping SMs according to switching state combinations and introducing auxiliary state variables, the dimension of the state matrix is significantly reduced, thereby accelerating numerical integration. Leveraging the characteristics of state variable grouping, an efficient capacitor voltage balancing algorithm is proposed. Finally, the accuracy and effectiveness of the proposed model are validated through simulation case studies.

*This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant 52377118. Paper submitted to the International Conference on Power Systems Transients (IPST2025) in Guadalajara, Mexico, June 8–12, 2025. \* Corresponding author. E-mail addresses: fuxiaopeng@tju.edu.cn (X. Fu), jeanm@polymtl.ca (J. Mahseredjian).*

## 1. Introduction

With the increasing capacity of renewable energy integration, transmission, and consumption, power systems are exhibiting a pronounced trend of high renewable energy penetration and high proportion of power electronics. The fast dynamic response characteristics and the large scale of the system present new challenges and urgent demands for improvements in simulation technology. In recent years, accelerating the simulation of large-scale power electronic systems has become a research focus [1–3].

Aligned with the trend of high penetration of power electronic devices, the primary challenge for electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation is modeling the diverse range of power electronic equipment. Modular multilevel converter (MMC) based high-voltage direct current (HVDC) transmission offers flexible control and low harmonic content, making it a key technology for transporting large-scale renewable energy. With rapid development of MMC–HVDC transmission technologies, transmission voltage and capacity continue to rise. Typically, MMCs need to reach hundreds of levels to meet the requirements of practical engineering, and each submodule (SM) contains multiple power electronic switches [4,5]. The large number of power electronic devices operating at high frequency seriously affects the simulation speed, posing a great challenge for EMT simulation [6,7]. To address the issue of slow EMT simulation of high-level MMCs in practical power system studies, it is essential to develop an improved simulation approach for MMC–HVDC systems.

For EMT simulation, there are mainly two algorithm frameworks—state-space analysis and nodal analysis. Most existing acceleration models of MMC were proposed in the nodal analysis framework. In [8], the MMC Thevenin equivalent model is introduced that balances simulation accuracy and speed while retaining the internal information of each SM. This approach is now widely used in practice. Further optimized equivalent models were recently proposed in [9] and [10] to improve simulation speed. Thevenin equivalent models were also implemented for variant of converter topologies, e.g. hybrid MMC composed of both half-bridge and full-bridge SMs [11], and cascaded power electronic devices [12], improving simulation efficiency by eliminating internal nodes.

The nodal analysis framework is efficient in model construction, but its discretization formula effectively hard-codes the simulation step and integration scheme, which limits its flexibility in some scenarios. In contrast, the state-space analysis framework is advantageous in that the numerical method and simulation model are relatively independent, allowing for flexible adaption for suitable numerical integration algorithm and simulation parameters [7,13]. Several equivalent models of MMC were proposed in this framework. A generic state-space model of MMC with full current and all capacitor dynamics was derived in [14], which was a switching function model, but its simulation time increases significantly with the number of MMC levels. By grouping identical MMC SMs, the model in [15] requires only one calculation for the same type of SMs. Since no circuit simplification is performed, its accuracy matches that of the original model. But its efficiency depends on the equivalent approach used. Another MMC state-space acceleration model was proposed in [16], which assumes balanced capacitor voltage, limiting its applicability. To the best of authors’ knowledge, while the Thevenin equivalent approach for MMC in nodal analysis is well recognized, a comparably efficient yet general approach within the state-space framework remains lacking. This work addresses this gap by proposing a novel method that improves simulation speed and accurately preserves individual SM information, without sacrificing flexibility of state-space analysis.

The core idea of the proposed me