# A Thévenin-Type Version of the Extended Modal-Domain Model for Lightning-Induced Voltage Calculations
**Osis E. S. Leal** and **Alberto De Conti**, Senior Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—In this paper, a new procedure is proposed for determining the external current sources required for evaluating lightning-induced voltages on overhead lines with the extended-modal domain (EMD) model. Unlike the original model, in which the calculation of the inducing current sources depends on the fitting of the characteristic admittance of the line, in the proposed procedure this calculation is performed using the characteristic impedance of the line. This significantly simplifies the use of the EMD model because now all parameters can be readily obtained from the built-in fitting tool that is usually available in electromagnetic transient programs to derive the parameters of Marti’s transmission line model. The validity of the proposed procedure is demonstrated through examples that indicate its accuracy in the calculation of lightning-induced voltages on overhead distribution lines terminated with different types of loads, including transformers and surge arresters, and multiple grounding points.

**Index Terms**—Lightning-induced voltages, overhead distribution lines, EMT-type programs.

*Manuscript received 7 December 2021; revised 13 April 2022; accepted 30 May 2022. Date of publication 10 June 2022; date of current version 24 January 2023. This work was supported in part by the National Council for Scientific and Technological Development (CNPq) under Grant 306006/2019-7 and in part by the State of Minas Gerais Research Foundation (FAPEMIG) under Grant TEC-PPM-00280-17. Paper no. TPWRD-01815-2021. (Corresponding author: Osis E. S. Leal.)*
*Osis E. S. Leal is with the Department of Electrical Engineering, Federal University of Technology – Paraná (UTFPR), Pato Branco 85503-390, Brazil (e-mail: osisleal@utfpr.edu.br).*
*Alberto De Conti is with the Department of Electrical Engineering, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, MG 31270-901, Brazil (e-mail: conti@cpdee.ufmg.br).*
*Color versions of one or more figures in this article are available at https://doi.org/10.1109/TPWRD.2022.3181445.*
*Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TPWRD.2022.3181445*

## I. INTRODUCTION
LIGHTNING-INDUCED voltage calculations on power distribution networks with complex topologies are more easily performed within the framework of electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation programs [1]–[9], which have an expansible library of power system components that can be efficiently connected for the simulation of transient phenomena. Recently, two methodologies were proposed in [8] and [9] for performing lightning-induced voltage calculations using the universal line model (ULM) [10] and Marti’s transmission line model [11], which are available in most EMT-like programs. In these methodologies, a pair of current sources connected at the ends of the line is used to fully describe the effect of the incident electromagnetic (EM) fields, as shown in Fig. 1. These sources, named $j_0(t)$ and $j_L(t)$, are calculated either in the phase domain or in the modal domain depending on the line model they are coupled to.

The calculation of $j_0(t)$ and $j_L(t)$ depends on the incident lightning EM fields. It also depends on the representation of the characteristic admittance and propagation function of the line as sums of rational terms [8], for which a fitting tool is required. Although in principle any fitting technique could be used (see, e.g., [12]), the current source calculation is simplified if the fitting is entirely performed within the EMT simulation tool because the user no longer needs to implement a computer code to calculate and fit the line parameters. The problem is that Marti’s transmission line model [11] available in the Alternative Transients Program (ATP) [13], in the Electromagnetic Transients Program (EMTP) [14] and in the Power Systems Computer Aided Design (PSCAD) [15] is not based on the fitting of the characteristic admittance $Y_c$, but on its reciprocal, the characteristic impedance $Z_c = Y_c^{-1}$. Consequently, the calculation of the current sources shown in Fig. 1 using the built-in fitting tools available in these simulation platforms is impaired because the poles and residues of $Y_c$ are not readily available.

The main contribution of this paper is to propose an original procedure for the calculation of $j_0(t)$ and $j_L(t)$ that depends solely on the fitting of $Z_c$. This greatly simplifies the calculation of lightning induced voltages using Marti’s model in EMT-like tools with the extended modal domain model (EMD) [8], [9], because the independent calculation and fitting of $Y_c$ is no longer required. In addition, the new procedure enables the calculation of $j_0(t)$ and $j_L(t)$ using the poles and residues provided by the built-in fitting tools available in such platforms, which avoids the need of the user to write a dedicated code for performing such task.

This paper is organized as follows. Section II presents the problem characterization. Section III introduces the proposed solution method. Results and analysis are presented in Section IV, followed by conclusions in Section V.

**Fig. 1.** Lossy multiconductor transmission line with current sources representing the effect of external EM fields.

in EMT programs. For dealing with the convolutions in $(2)$, $Y_c$ is fitted in the frequency domain using the vector fitting technique [16], and a recursive algorithm is used [8], [9]. In the