# A TIME-DOMAIN APPROACH TO TRANSMISSION NETWORK EQUIVALENTS VIA PRONY ANALYSIS FOR ELECTROMAGNETIC TRANSIENTS ANALYSIS

**Jun-Hee Hong**, Student Member  
**Jong-Keun Park**, Member  
Department of Electrical Engineering  
Seoul National University, Seoul, 151-742 Korea

**Abstract:** This paper presents a method of obtaining transmission network equivalents from the network's response to a pulse excitation signal. Proposed method is based on modal decomposition representation for the large-scale interconnected system. In this framework we use Prony analysis to identify the network function of the system and to decompose the large system into a parallel combination of simple first-order systems. As a result network function of the transmission network can be identified easily, and Thevenin-type of discrete-time filter model can be generated. It can reproduce the driving-point impedance characteristic of the network. Furthermore proposed model can be implemented into the EMTP in a direct manner. The simulation results with the full system representation and the developed equivalent system showed a good agreement.

**Keywords:** Network Function, Modal Decomposition, Prony Analysis, Electromagnetic Transients.

## I. Introduction

It is required in electromagnetic transients studies to represent the complex power system in great detailed manner [1-5]. Whereas routine load-flow and fault level studies in power system are widely carried out for networks of several hundred nodes, it is seldom feasible to base electromagnetic transient analysis on this scale of explicit network representation. Thus almost invariably, it is required to represent networks, or given part of networks, in a reduced form.

The equivalent for the electromagnetic transient analysis requires the ability to reproduce the original system's effects on the transient signal accurately. The transient signals are of very short duration and have a broad range of frequencies. The frequency dependence and distributed nature of the network components, especially those of the transmission lines, are the typical characteristics that exert a great effect on the generation and propagation of the transient signals. Thus, to satisfy the fundamental requirement, the equivalent system must be generated by an appropriate method that can fully reflect those major characteristics into the equivalent.

The conventional short-circuit impedance, calculated at power frequency, cannot reproduce the reduced network's behavior because this form of equivalent is of lumped parameter form and it is therefore unable to take into account those characteristics of the transmission line. To improve the shortcomings A. S. Morched and V. Brandwajn proposed a method of constructing equivalent that approximates the frequency response of the network [4]. In this frequency domain method the system to be reduced is represented by an approximated rational network function. The approximated network function is determined in frequency domain via iterative nonlinear curve fitting procedure.

This paper describes a new time-domain method of obtaining transmission network equivalents from the network's response to a pulse excitation. Proposed method is based on modal decomposition representation for the interconnected system. It is the Prony analysis that makes the framework of modal decomposition feasible. With Prony analysis we can analyze the system response and identify a rational network function in simple fraction expansion form. As a result, we can decompose the large system into a parallel combination of simple first-order systems and consequently Thevenin-type of discrete-time filter model can be obtained in easy and simple way. This model has optimal low-order. It can reproduce the driving-point impedance characteristics of the network and can be implemented in a direct manner into the EMTP or any other time-domain digital simulator. The simulation results with the full system representation and the developed equivalent system showed a good agreement. In the paper, the proposed reduction method will be described only for the single-phase equivalent model. However, the same approach can be extended to generate 3-phase equivalent easily by modal transform [1-5].

## II. Network Function

Consider the system shown in Fig. 1.

**Fig. 1.** External system, study system and boundary bus.

In Fig. 1, the overall system consists of two parts; the study system and the external system. Because of the close electromagnetic influence, the model appropriateness for the study system may have a serious effect on the accuracy of the simulation results. Thus the study system must be modeled in great detailed manner. On the other hand, in transient analysis it is the transient signals at the boundary bus that are of great importance while those in the external system are of no interest. So, the external system can be replaced by an equivalent.

We assume that the external system is linear and time-invariant. The only interaction between the external system and the study system comes from the transient signals at the boundary bus. Note that we make no assumption on the study system; it may be nonlinear and/or time-varying. In this case, the transient voltage and current signal will not be affected if the