# A Time-Domain Harmonic Power-Flow Algorithm for Obtaining Nonsinusoidal Steady-State Solutions
**Kuo Lung Lian and Taku Noda, Senior Member, IEEE**

**Abstract**—Steady-state simulation plays a vital role in power system analysis and design. Over the past 25 plus years, various steady-state methods have been proposed. Most of these methods only deal with how to obtain steady-state waveforms of a system in an efficient manner. Only a few of them also take power-flow constraints into account. The majority of these “power-flow” methods are implemented in the frequency domain, which inevitably suffers from harmonic truncation errors. Moreover, the problem of model incompatibility will rise when they are used for the steady-state initialization of a time-domain electromagnetic transient (EMT) program. This paper presents a harmonic power-flow method, which is implemented entirely in the time domain. The proposed method essentially extends a time-domain steady-state method, called “shooting method” to include the power-flow constraints and to account for aggregate loads in the power-flow calculations.

**Index Terms**—Harmonic analysis, Newton-Raphson method, nonlinear systems, power electronics, power-flow analysis, time-domain analysis.

## I. INTRODUCTION
STEADY-STATE simulation plays a vital role in power system design and analysis. The steady-state operating point is necessary for small-signal analysis, which is commonly used for controller design and stability evaluation. Moreover, accurate steady-state initializations are important for the startup of an electromagnetic transient program.

There are a number of steady-state methods, proposed in the past [1], and these methods, in general, can be classified into three categories: 1) time-domain methods [2]–[16]; 2) frequency-domain methods [17]–[33]; and 3) hybrid time–frequency domain methods [34], [35]. Most of these methods only deal with obtaining a system’s steady-state waveforms in an efficient way. On the other hand, only a few of them also deal with taking power-flow constraints into account. In this paper, attention will be paid to the latter and specifically referred to as “power-flow” methods. In fact, the contribution of this paper is to propose a method, incorporating the power-flow constraints into a steady-state time-domain method.

One of the most well-known power-flow methods is the fundamental power-flow or conventional power-flow (CPF) analysis [17]. However, CPF does not take into account the interaction between the fundamental power-flow and harmonic distortion, which may lead to erroneous results [20]. Xia and Heydt [18], [19] extended the CPF analysis to allow the inclusion of nonlinear component in the formulation. However, their method only allows characteristic harmonics to be taken into account. This balanced harmonic power-flow (HPF) was extended later to three phases by several researchers [27], [39]. These include Arrillaga et al. [22], Valcárcel and Mayordomo [23], Xu et al. [21], and Smith et al. [29]. Arrillaga et al. introduced the concept of harmonic domain, and showed how a nonlinear component can be modeled in the three-phase frame of reference in the harmonic domain [22]. Valcárcel and Mayordomo employed a fixed-point iteration of two separate Newton-Raphson procedures—one for the three-phase CPF and the other for the harmonics generated by the nonlinear loads. Xu et al. used a similar idea but expressed all of the load-flow constraints as branch equations to allow for greater flexibility of system representation. Smith et al. derived a closed form expression for the nonlinear device of the interest. In this way, the problem can be entirely solved by Newton’s method because the Jacobian matrix can be analytically derived.

Since most of the HPF methods are implemented in the frequency domain [36]. Consequently, the accuracy of the solution depends on the number of harmonics included in the calculation process. In addition, the number of harmonics also determines the dimensions of the system, which affects the the overall simulation time. Finally, fully incorporating a harmonic power flow algorithm in a general time-domain EMT program for the steady-state initialization is not a trivial task because harmonic domain models need to be developed for all the time-domain components. These problems can be avoided if the power-flow analysis is implemented in the time domain.[^1] In fact, Perkins et al. [9] has already recognized this fact and implemented a steady-state initialization algorithm based on a well-known time-domain steady-state analysis, known as the shooting method [2]–[4]. They modeled the nonlinear components by means of piecewise linearization. Also, they followed the work of [3] to construct the Jacobian matrix, which is required for the Newton-type iteration, by simulating a set of companion circuit whose topology is the same as that of the original circuit.

---
*Manuscript received July 23, 2008; revised August 31, 2009, November 23, 2009, February 06, 2010. First published April 05, 2010; current version published June 23, 2010. Paper no. TPWRD-00579-2008.*

T. Noda is with Electric Power Engineering Research Laboratory, Central Research Institute of Electric Power Industry, Kanagawa 240-0196, Japan (e-mail: takunoda@ieee.org).

K. L. Lian was with the Electric Power Engineering Research Laboratory, Central Research Institute of Electric Power Industry, Kanagawa 240-0196, Japan. He is now with the Department of Electrical Engineering, National Taiwan University of Science and Technology, Taipei, Taiwan (e-mail: ryanlian@mail.ntust.edu.tw).

Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TPWRD.2010.2043547

[^1]: Note that time-domain methods also have limitations, such as dependence on the time step. However, when a steady-state initialization routine is added to an EMT program, it is not desirable to have additional limitations other than what the EMT programs already have. Therefore, a frequency-domain-based steady-state initialization is less desirable compared to an entirely time-domain-based steady-state initialization program. For a concise description on the advantages and disadvantages of the frequency and time domains for the computation of the periodic steady-state solution of the nonlinear power network, please refer to [7], [8], and [34].