Received 18 November 2024, accepted 14 December 2024, date of publication 23 December 2024, date of current version 30 December 2024.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/ACCESS.2024.3521284

# A Transient Conducted EM Disturbances Source Modeling Method for Electromagnetic Launch System Based on the Cascaded Multi-Port Circuit Model

BAILIN MOU<sup>1</sup>, QI-FENG LIU<sup>1</sup>, (Member, IEEE), ZHENYA CHEN<sup>1,2</sup>, XIAOWEN WU<sup>1</sup>, YONGMING LI<sup>1</sup>, CHEN HUANG<sup>3</sup>, AND HUAI-QING ZHANG<sup>1</sup>, (Member, IEEE)

<sup>1</sup> School of Electrical Engineering, Chongqing University, Chongqing 400044, China
<sup>2</sup> State Grid Zhejiang Hangzhou Power Supply Company, Hangzhou 311499, China
<sup>3</sup> Science and Technology on EMC Laboratory, China Ship Development and Design Centre, Wuhan 430064, China

Corresponding author: Qi-Feng Liu (liuqifeng@cqu.edu.cn)

This work was supported in part by the Natural Science Foundation of Chongqing, China, under Grant cstc2021ycjh-bgzxm033; and in part by the National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant 52377002.

**ABSTRACT** Electromagnetic launch (EML) systems with energy storage units in transient operating states are gradually being applied in modern ships, satellite launches, etc., power switching devices with higher voltage and switching frequency, Additionally, innovative topologies are being developed to enhance the electromagnetic performance of the EML systems. This inevitably leads to significant EMI issues. Therefore, this paper proposes a transient conducted EMI source modeling method for EML systems based on a multi-port equivalent circuit cascade model. Initially, a multi-port transient conducted EMI source model for supercapacitors is developed, taking into account the time-varying load characteristics of supercapacitors during charging and transient high-current discharge characteristics during discharging. Subsequently, a multi-port transient conducted EMI source model of the dual three-phase linear motor has been developed utilizing experimental measurement data. Leveraging the port-to-port cascade characteristics of various devices in the EML system, a dual three-phase dc-ac inverter multi-port conducted EMI model with high-frequency parasitic effects has been developed. A system-level modeling method based on the multi-port equivalent circuit cascade transient conducted EMI source modeling method is developed by cascading the multi-port equivalent circuit models of each functional component for the EML system. To evaluate the accuracy of this system-level modeling method, an experimental setup is constructed to assess transient conducted EM disturbances in a low-power EML system. The time-domain simulation results of the transient operating state are compared and analyzed with the actual operating conditions from the voltage, current, and energy perspectives, further validating the accuracy and efficacy of the EML system conducted EMI source modeling method based on a cascade of multi-port equivalent circuit models, as well as the transient conducted EM disturbances time-domain and frequency-domain characteristics.

**INDEX TERMS** Transient conducted EM disturbances, multi-port equivalent circuit, electromagnetic launch system.

## I. INTRODUCTION

Electromagnetic launch systems (EML) are a type of equipment that use electromagnetic force (EMF) generated by pulse power generation equipment to propel the load to a high initial velocity. Essentially, they are energy conversion equipment that converts electrical energy into kinetic energy to launch the load [1], [2], [3], [4], [5]. The EML system utilizes a supercapacitor energy storage device to achieve launch through an instantaneous high-power linear motor. It primarily consists of the energy storage subsystem, the electromagnetic propulsion subsystem, and the control and maintenance subsystem. The high-power energy transmission from the electrical energy conversion devices in this system increases both the power switching frequency and voltage level. Consequently, this can significantly impact the external power supply grid, resulting in serious conducted EMI problems [5]. Consequently, this impacts the safe and stable operation of equipment on the platform.

Currently, scholars and research institutions are primarily focused on the electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) of EML systems. Their primary focus is on the characteristics of wideband electromagnetic radiation through experimental measurements [6]. This research is carried out through both experimental measurements [7], [8], [9] and simulation modeling methods [10], [11], [12], [13], [14], [15], [16]. Considering the need for conducted EM disturbances in EML systems, and the electrical energy conversion device generates high $du/dt$ and $di/dt$ during the turn-on and turn-off processes, special attention must be paid to its EMI characteristics. The EMI sources modeling methods mainly can be divided into: frequency-domain and time-domain methods. The frequency-domain modeling method is used to establish the equivalent circuit model of differential mode (DM) and common mode (CM) interference [17]. This method facilitates the direct acquisition of its conducted EM disturbances spectrum. Therefore, it has been more

However, given that EM disturbances signal cross-propagate between devices, it is critical to analyze and model the mechanisms of conducted EMI from a system perspective. Therefore, Yang et al. investigated the mechanisms of EM disturbances interaction between various equipment in the system [26], developed high-frequency models for typical equipment and the system, and performed simulation analysis based on the new resonant problems created by EM disturbances paths between devices under different operating conditions. Due to the high-current during equipment operation, the current probe may become magnetically saturated. To ensure accurate measurement of high-frequency interference currents in high-current systems, reference [27] proposed a flexible current probe that utilizes Rogowski coils and passive matching resistors, facilitating the detection of time-domain DM and CM currents.

However, no relevant research findings on the transient conducted EMI source system-level modeling and simulation of EML systems. Due to the inability to accurately model the EM disturbances behavior of EML, it is challenging to establish design constraints and requirements for the optimal design of EMI filters to suppress transient conducted EM disturbances. Therefore, it is necessary to establish suitable modeling for transient conducted EMI source in the EMLs to accurately predict its transient EMI source characteristics.

This paper is organized as follows: firstly, the multi-port method facilitates the direct acquisition of its conducted EM disturbances spectrum. Therefore, it has been more