# A Type-4 Wind Power Plant Equivalent Model for the Analysis of Electromagnetic Transients in Power Systems
Dalia N. Hussein, Student Member, IEEE, Mahmoud Matar, Senior Member, IEEE, and Reza Iravani, Fellow, IEEE

*The authors are with the University of Toronto, Toronto, ON Canada M5S 3G4 (e-mail: dalia.hussein@ieee.org; mahmatar@ieee.org; iravani@ecf.utoronto.ca).*

**Abstract**—This paper introduces an accurate and computationally efficient reduced-order dynamic equivalent of a Type-4–based wind power plant (WPP) for the analysis of electromagnetic transients (EMTs) in the power system external to the WPP. The proposed model significantly reduces the computational resources and the simulation run time while preserving the WPP response fidelity in the desired frequency range, e.g., 0 to 50 kHz. The proposed WPP equivalent model is composed of two parts: 1) a frequency-dependent equivalent model which represents the WPP passive component in the entire frequency range and 2) a dynamic equivalent model that represents the WPP supervisory control and the aggregated low-frequency dynamics of wind-turbine generator (WTG) units. The latter can be constructed from the: 1) dynamic generic models; 2) vendor-specific models; or 3) user-defined models. The proposed model is incorporated as a software module in the PSCAD/EMTDC environment, and its efficiency and accuracy are verified based on comparing the results with those of a detailed model.

**Index Terms**—Collector system, dynamic equivalent, electromagnetic transients (EMTs), modeling, type-4 wind-turbine generator (WTG), vector fitting, wind farms, wind power plants (WPPs).

## I. INTRODUCTION
HIGH depth of penetration of wind power and proliferation of wind-turbine generator (WTG) units, clustered as wind power plants (WPPs), have invoked significant effort for development of WPP mathematical models for power system studies. These models reflect WPP behavior with respect to different types of power-system phenomena and cover a wide range of studies, i.e., from planning to fast electromagnetic transients (EMTs). EMT studies are conducted either within a WPP or in the power system external to the WPP. The latter is the focus of this paper.

Analysis of EMTs in a power system inherently necessitates the system model to accurately represent the overall system within the required frequency range. Thus, the brute-force approach to modeling a WPP for EMT studies is to represent the collector system and all WTG units based on their detailed models. Considering the size and complexity of a WPP, this approach requires significant software/hardware computational resources and imposes formidable run-time for each case study. The former is also a practical limitation for EMT studies in a real-time simulation environment. However, considering the fact that EMTs propagate in a fairly limited portion of power system, the system under study can be virtually divided into two zones. The first zone encompasses that part of the system where the EMTs are investigated, and, consequently, all of the corresponding components need to be modeled in detail. The second zone covers the rest of the system which has secondary impact on the study zone transients and, thus, can be represented by an equivalent model that reflect its impact on the EMTs of the first zone in the whole frequency range of interest. This strategy is adopted in this paper, and the WPP forms (since transients are initiated outside the WPP) the second zone and is represented by the proposed wide frequency-band WPP equivalent model, connected to the point of common coupling (PCC).

This paper presents a reduced-order, wide-band frequency-dependent, dynamic equivalent model of the Type-4 WPP. The WPP equivalent model consists of two distinct submodels: 1) a static wide-frequency-band equivalent which represents all of the WPP components, except the WTG units and their local controls and the WPP supervisory control, within the desired frequency range, and 2) a dynamic low-frequency model which represents dynamics of WPP supervisory control and dynamics of the aggregated WTG units and local controls, within the range of several hertz about the system nominal frequency.

This paper describes the methodology to: 1) develop the static wide-frequency-band equivalent and dynamic low-frequency models of a WPP and 2) integrate them as the overall low-order, wide-frequency-band equivalent model of the WPP. To demonstrate and verify the accuracy and computational efficiency of the equivalent model, study test cases based on the use of detailed model and the proposed equivalent model of a WPP, in the PSCAD/EMTDC environment, are conducted and the results are compared. The main contribution of this work is the development of the reduced-order, wideband frequency-dependent WPP dynamic equivalent model which to the best of our knowledge has not been previously introduced in the technical literature. The main contributions are: 1) integration of the two submodels to accurately represent the WPP in the desired frequency band and 2) development of a systematic approach to construct the low-frequency dynamic model, incorporating the WTG controls and the WPP supervisory control.

The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section II presents the general structure of the proposed equivalent model. Sections III and IV present the development of the WPP passive