# A Universal Blocking-Module-Based Average Value Model of Modular Multilevel Converters with Different Types of Submodules
Xuekun Meng, Student Member, IEEE, Jintao Han, Student Member, IEEE, Levi Bieber, Student Member, IEEE, Liwei Wang, Member, IEEE, and Wei Li, Member, IEEE, Jean Belanger, Senior Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—The large amount of power electronic submodules and semiconductor switching events in the Modular Multilevel Converter (MMC) introduces several challenges for efficient and accurate Electro-Magnetic Transient (EMT) simulation. Research efforts have focused on developing Average Value Models (AVMs) of MMC that enable fast and accurate dynamic simulation of the converter. This paper proposes a universal blocking-module-based AVM, which can simulate the MMC of different submodule types and provide accurate results for the MMC operating in both blocking and de-blocking modes. An analytical approach is included in the model to calculate the semiconductor losses of different submodule types in the MMC. The proposed model is validated against a detailed switching-based model and the state-of-the-art AVMs in a 41-level two-terminal MMC-HVDC system.

**Index Terms**—Average value model, detailed equivalent model, electromagnetic simulation, HVDC converter, multilevel converter, power system simulation, switching function.

## I. INTRODUCTION
THE development of Modular Multilevel Converter High Voltage Direct Current (HVDC) technology [1]–[3] brought many advantages for long distance power transmission, compared to the traditional Line-Commutated Converter (LCC) HVDC [4]–[6]. These benefits include independent real and reactive power control, reduced converter footprint, lower converter harmonics, and the ability to connect to weak AC grids [7]–[11]. However, the large amount of Insulated-Gate Bipolar Transistor (IGBT) switches in the Sub-Modules (SMs) of the MMC introduces several challenges in developing efficient and accurate MMC numerical models for offline and real-time simulation.

The detailed semiconductor component-based model can accurately represent IGBT non-linear device characteristics for MMC simulation. However, it introduces tremendous computational burden due to the massive non-linear component and switching events. Detailed Equivalent Models (DEMs) in [12] and [13] represent a converter arm using the Thevenin equivalent circuit in the discrete time domain and greatly improve the overall simulation efficiency. However, they are not applicable to the converter DC pole-to-pole fault. An improved MMC model, proposed in [14], uses additional switches and diodes in the DEM to accurately model the converter DC pole-to-pole fault. The CPU- and FPGA-based real-time simulation are proposed in [15]–[18] for the MMC DEMs. In [15] and [16], the DEM uses two antiparallel diodes and two controlled voltage sources to represent a converter arm. The controlled voltage sources are calculated from the capacitor voltages and gating signals of individual SMs in the discrete time domain.

In order to further improve the simulation efficiency of the MMC, efforts to develop the AVMs are reported in [19]–[28]. Switching-Function-Based (SFB) AVMs are proposed in [19]–[22] to emulate the MMC arm dynamic behavior using the arm insertion index and the equivalent arm capacitance. In these SFB-AVMs, the SM capacitor Voltage Balancing Control (VBC) and individual SM switching signals are not considered, thus leading to improved simulation efficiency. Alternatively, control-signal-based AVMs [23]–[26] use the AC- and DC-side Thevenin equivalent circuits derived from the converter power or Vdc outer loop controls and the inner current loop controls. The AVMs in [23], [24] can represent the converter dynamics under converter de-blocking operations. However, they have difficulty achieving accurate results for the DC-side pole-to-pole fault. To address this issue, the AVM proposed in [25] uses a diode in series with the controlled voltage source in a converter arm to model the converter in blocking mode. In [26], three AVMs were introduced for the Half-Bridge (HB) MMC with the concept of Blocking Modules (BMs). The use of BMs in the AVMs provides the connection between the AC- and DC-side equivalent circuits in the converter blocking operations (e.g. converter energizing and DC-side pole-to-pole fault) and improves the accuracy of the AVMs in [23]–[25].

The AVMs proposed in [23]–[26] only consider the HB MMC. The MMC AVMs with Full-Bridge (FB) [22] and [29] or Mixed half- and full-Bridge (MB) SMs [30]–[32] for the