## A Voltage-Behind-Reactance Synchronous Machine Model for the EMTP-Type Solution
Liwei Wang, Student Member, IEEE, and Juri Jatskevich, Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—A full-order, voltage-behind-reactance synchronous machine model has recently been proposed in the literature. This paper extends the voltage-behind-reactance formulation for the electromagnetic transient program (EMTP)-type solution, in which the rotor subsystem is expressed in coordinates and the stator subsystem is expressed in phase coordinates. The model interface with the nodal-analysis network solution is non-iterative and simultaneous. An example of a single-machine, infinite-bus system shows that the proposed model is more accurate and efficient than several existing EMTP machine models.

**Index Terms**—Computational techniques, electromagnetic transient program (EMTP), phase-domain (PD) model, synchronous machine, voltage-behind-reactance (VBR) model.

## I. INTRODUCTION
THERE have been numerous models proposed to represent synchronous machines for power-system analysis. For transient stability studies, reduced-order machine models that neglect stator transients are commonly used [1]. However, for electromagnetic transient studies [2], full-order models are often used, due to their greater accuracy. Depending on the modeling languages, various machine models have been developed using the state-variable approach [3]–[5] (wherein the discretization is performed at the system level by the ODE solver) and the nodal-analysis approach [6], [7] (wherein the discretization is done at the component/branch level using a particular integration rule).

In this paper, synchronous machine models suitable for the electromagnetic transient program (EMTP) solution are investigated. The EMTP and its derivative programs are extensively used by industry and academia as powerful and standard simulation tools, wherein the classical full-order synchronous machine model is available.

In the existing EMTP-type software packages, there are three commonly used methods for interfacing the machine model with the external network. In the first approach, the machine is represented internally in coordinates, but it is interfaced with the external network using a Thevenin equivalent circuit in phase coordinates. The voltage sources of the Thevenin equivalent contain predicted machine electrical and mechanical variables, and the equivalent resistances are averaged to incorporate rotor saliency [8]. A prediction-correction scheme is used for the machine variables, whereas the network variables are solved without iterations. The synchronous machine models Type-50 in MicroTran [9] and Type-59 in DCG/EPRI EMTP [10] fall into this category.

The second approach is based on the compensation method, in which the external ac system is represented as a Thevenin equivalent circuit and is interfaced with the synchronous machine in axes. Linear extrapolation of the rotor speed is used at the beginning of each time step. To obtain the solution, iterations are applied to both machine’s electrical and mechanical variables. The compensation method works well as long as the distributed-parameter transmission lines separate the machines. When this is not the case, artificial “stub lines” are sometimes used, complicating the network modeling and reducing its accuracy. The universal machine model in the ATP is implemented using this method [11].

In the third method, used in PSCAD/EMTDC [12], the machine model is interfaced with the network as a compensation current source and a special terminating impedance [13]. The machine model is represented as a Norton current source that is calculated using the terminal bus voltages from the previous time step. Therefore, a one-time-step delay exists in this type of machine model.

The key advantage of the model is that it uses a constant inductance matrix, making it numerically efficient. Also, the model structure makes it possible to incorporate the magnetic saturation in a number of convenient ways [2], [11]. However, the three methods of interfacing the traditional machine model with the EMTP network solution artificially reduce simulation efficiency by requiring a small time-step to keep the interfacing error under certain tolerance. When larger time-steps are used, the accuracy of the simulation deteriorates. Moreover, the existing interfacing methods have been shown to cause numerical instability problems [14], [15], which is especially undesirable in real-time simulations [16].

As an alternative to the classical model, some researchers have turned to the original coupled-circuit machine model formulation, in which the model is expressed in physical variables and phase coordinates [17]–[21]. In the EMTP community, this approach is known as the phase-domain (PD) model and may provide more accurate representation of machine internal phenomena, such as internal machine faults [20]. Because the stator circuit is directly interfaced to the rest of the network, no predictions and/or iterations of electrical variables are needed and the

*Manuscript received March 28, 2006; revised July 4, 2006. This work was supported in part by the Natural Science and Engineering Research Council (NSERC) of Canada under the Discovery Grant and in part by the Power Engineering Grant-In-Aid from BC Hydro and Powertech Labs, Inc. Paper no. TPWRS-00172-2006.*  
*The authors are with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z4, Canada (e-mail: liweiw@ece.ubc.ca; jurij@ece.ubc.ca).*  
*Color versions of Figs. 3-6 are available online at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.*  
Dig