# A waveform-dependence lightning impulse corona model in PSCAD/EMTDC for investigating surge propagation on transmission lines
Yudong Jiang, Fuchang Lin, Hua Li*
School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, 1037 Luoyu Road, Wuhan, 430074, Hubei, China
*Corresponding author. E-mail address: leehua@hust.edu.cn (H. Li).

**Keywords:** Corona, Waveform-dependence, Critical volume method, Lightning impulse, Electromagnetic transient program

**Abstract:** This paper proposes a waveform-dependence lightning impulse corona model and develops it in PSCAD/EMTDC. The model computes corona initiation delay time by the critical volume method and considers the ionization relaxation process in corona space charge generation. Thus, the model can calculate corona capacitance and charge caused by the various waveform lightning impulses. A simple algorithm is proposed to avoid iteration in the solution process to apply the model to electromagnetic transient program for lightning overvoltage analysis. The accuracy of the model is verified by comparing the simulation results with measurement results available in the literature. Based on this model, we investigate the effect of the waveform on the attenuation and deformation of lightning impulse propagation on transmission lines. The results indicate that as the propagation distance increases, the attenuation rate of the voltage peak gradually slows down, and the front time linearly increases with distance. As the front and tail time decreases, the attenuation and deformation of lightning impulses caused by corona become more severe.

## 1. Introduction
Corona is a primary source of attenuation and deformation of lightning surge propagation on transmission lines [1–4]. The dissipation of energy caused by the corona reduces the amplitude and front time of lightning surges, which are essential parameters for the insulation coordination of substations [5]. Therefore, accurately evaluating the corona effect on the lightning surge is crucial for the lightning protection design of electrical equipment.

When the electric field near the conductor’s surface exceeds the critical value, corona discharge occurs, and air ionization generates space charges in the vicinity of the conductor [6–9]. Thus, the corona effect is equivalent to an increase in the capacitance of the transmission line and is usually simulated by the capacitance in transient analysis. The corona capacitance calculation has been widely studied. Some researchers have proposed several mathematical functions of corona capacitance to approximate the experimental charge–voltage ($Q$-$V$) curves [10,11]. However, these approaches require experimental results from field tests, which are always challenging. Tai et al. proposed a simplified mathematical, physical model to calculate corona space charge and capacitance based on the assumption of the distribution of corona space charge, which has the advantage of applying to lines without experimental results [12]. To reproduce the experimental $Q$-$V$ curves for various waveform lightning impulses, Li et al. proposed it is necessary to consider the time delay in corona formation [13].

However, in this model, the value of the delay time is a constant, which contradicts the phenomenon that the corona initiation delay is related to the waveform [14,15]. Correia et al. believe that the corona discharge’s streamer development and ionization process should also be considered to obtain the waveform-dependence of the lightning impulse corona [16].

In addition, although electromagnetic transient programs are widely used for transient simulation of lightning overvoltage due to their robust line models and excellent accuracy, it is difficult to establish the corona model in electromagnetic transient programs due to the nonlinearity of corona capacitance. Motoyama et al. simulate the nonlinearity of corona capacitors through three parallel linear capacitances [17]. Anane et al. proposed that a nonlinear corona capacitor model can be developed using the type-94 component in ATP-EMTP, but this requires many iterations in the program and does not apply to other electromagnetic transient programs [18,19]. Pereira and Tavares developed a voltage-dependent line model under the corona effect in Matlab software. However, the line model cannot be modified in most electromagnetic transient programs [20,21].

This paper proposes a waveform-dependence lightning impulse corona model and develops it in PSCAD/EMTDC by a simple algorithm to investigate the effect of the waveform on the attenuation and deformation of lightning impulse propagation on transmission lines caused by corona. The model can be applied to the lightning surge of various waveforms by considering the corona initiation delay time and the ionization relaxation process in corona space charge generation.

**Fig. 1.** The two-dimensional distribution of corona space charges and corona branch.

## 2. Corona model
where $m$ is the roughness factor of the conductor surface and $\delta$ is the relative density.
For universality, this paper uses the lightning impulse corona initial voltage of the conductor when the probability of corona initiation is