# Accuracy Enhancement of Shifted Frequency-Based Simulation Using Root Matching and Embedded Small-Step
Shilin Gao, Student Member, IEEE, Zhendong Tan, Yankan Song, Member, IEEE, Ying Chen, Senior Member, IEEE, Chen Shen, Senior Member, IEEE, and Zhitong Yu, Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—Electromagnetic transients (EMT) simulation is fundamental in power system design and operation. To improve the computational efficiency of EMT simulation, the shifted frequency-based EMT (SFEMT) simulation with large time-steps has been proposed in the literature recently. Nevertheless, the existing SFEMT simulation methods with a large time-step have accuracy issues when there is a sudden change in the power system. In this paper, the causes of the poor accuracy of traditional SFEMT simulation in sudden-change scenarios are first analyzed. Then, it proposes a highly accurate SFEMT simulation algorithm based on the root matching (RM) and embedded small-step (ESS) techniques. Next, the RM-based SFEMT (RM-SFEMT) models of the power system components are derived and the flowchart of RM-SFEMT simulation with ESS is presented. Test results on three power systems of different scales demonstrate the improved accuracy of the proposed SFEMT simulation algorithm.

**Index Terms**—Accuracy analysis, electromagnetic transient simulation, EMTP, embedded small-step, power system, large time-step simulation, root matching, shifted frequency.

*Manuscript received 24 December 2021; revised 22 April 2022; accepted 11 September 2022. Date of publication 16 September 2022; date of current version 22 June 2023. This work was supported by the Natural Science Foundation of China under Grants 52007101, 51877115, and 51861135312. Paper no. TPWRS-01963-2021. (Corresponding author: Yankan Song.)*

Shilin Gao, Ying Chen, and Chen Shen are with the Department of Electrical Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China (e-mail: gaosl19@mails.tsinghua.edu.cn; chen_ying@tsinghua.edu.cn; shenchen@mail.tsinghua.edu.cn).
Zhendong Tan, Yankan Song, and Zhitong Yu are with the Sichuan Energy Research Internet Institute, Tsinghua University, Chengdu 610213, China (e-mail: 664183185@qq.com; songyankan@cloudpss.net; yuzhitong@cloudpss.net).

Color versions of one or more figures in this article are available at https://doi.org/10.1109/TPWRS.2022.3207283.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TPWRS.2022.3207283

## I. INTRODUCTION
With the development of power systems, the quasi-steady-state (QSS) analysis-based transient stability program no longer meets the requirements of a modern power system in some areas. For instance, severe disturbances in power systems often involve frequency excursions in addition to voltage excursions, where the QSS assumption does not hold. Thus, in the processes of design, operation and control of modern power systems, the electromagnetic transients (EMT) program (abbreviated as EMTP)-type simulator without QSS assumptions is widely used for studying the power system transients [1], [2], [3]. In the simulation of ac transmission and distribution systems with the EMTP-type simulator, there is an upper limit of the time-step size because of the ac carrier, which restricts the efficiency improvement of power system EMT simulation [4], [5], [6].

To enlarge the time-step of EMT simulation, a shifted-frequency-based EMT (SFEMT) simulation algorithm was proposed in [7], [8]. It finds a solution to the power system differential equations in the shifted frequency domain. The associated analytic signal of the original signal (e.g., voltages and currents) is first derived based on the Hilbert transformation, which only has a positive frequency spectrum. Then, the analytic envelope is obtained by shifting the fundamental frequency of the analytic signal from 50 or 60 Hz to zero. According to the sampling theory, a much larger time-step size can be chosen for the lowpass analytic envelope-based simulation, resulting in considerable savings in computational time. In [9], the Hilbert transformation is replaced by the differential transformation for constructing the analytical signal in SFEMT simulation. However, the high-frequency components may be enlarged by the differential transformation, which may cause accuracy issues. Therefore, the Hilbert transformation is still dominantly used in the SFEMT simulation. As for the application of SFEMT simulation, the SFEMT models of synchronous machines, induction machines, transformers, overhead transmission lines and cables were respectively formulated in [10], [11], [12], [13], [14], [15], achieving highly efficient EMT simulation of ac power system components. Regarding renewable energy system modeling, [16] and [17] constructed the SFEMT models of permanent magnet synchronous wind generator and doubly-fed induction generator, and the efficient simulation of wind energy conversion system is made. The above applications of the SFEMT simulation to various power system components demonstrate the effectiveness of SFEMT simulation.

However, the existing SFEMT simulation algorithms will be confronted with accuracy issues when there is a sudden change in the power system. By analyses, it is found that there are two causes for the accuracy problem in sudden-change scenarios. First, when a sudden change happens, the analytic envelope is not a lowpass signal anymore. There will be some frequency components around the negative fundamental frequency in the analytical envelope. For the simulation with the trapezoidal (TR) method and large time-step, evident truncation errors will be transformed into an analytic envelope signal S(

*Fig. 1.* Spectra of ac signals with Hilbert transformation and frequency shifting [8]. (a) Spectrum of the original signal. (b) Spectrum of the analytic signal. (c) Spectrum of the analytic envelope.

*Fig. 2.* Schematic diagram of frequency shifting with low-frequency.