## Accuracy assessment of analytical expressions for the ground return impedance of underground cables

Alberto De Conti$^{a,*}$, Antonio C.S. Lima$^{b}$

$^{a}$ Department of Electrical Engineering, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais (UFMG), Belo Horizonte, MG, 31270-901, Brazil
$^{b}$ Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, 21945-970, Brazil

**Keywords:** Approximate expressions, Electromagnetic transients, Ground return impedance, Underground cables

**Abstract:** The uncertainties about the soil parameters are far more pronounced than the other aspects of an underground circuit. Therefore, calculating transients may be hindered by inaccuracies in either the knowledge of the soil parameters or the numerical performance of the ground return impedance evaluation. This work investigates the performance of two closed-form expressions to calculate the ground return impedance and their sensitivity regarding ground parameter variations. One is the well-known Saad–Gaba–Giroux expression, and the other is a recently proposed expression by De Conti and Lima. The performance of both expressions for the wide cable separations found in double-circuit cable systems is compared to that of the integral equations of Sunde and Xue–Magalhães. An error analysis demonstrates the greater accuracy of the De Conti-Lima expression up to 10 MHz, which is the practical validity limit of the quasi-transverse electromagnetic (TEM) field propagation. Transient simulations confirm this finding and demonstrate that the newly proposed expression leads to more stable and accurate simulations than the Saad–Gaba–Giroux expression.

*I This paper was financed in part by the Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior - Brazil (CAPES), Finance Code 001. It was also supported in part by INERGE (Instituto Nacional de Energia Elétrica), by the National Council for Scientific and Technological Development (CNPq) (315778/2023-7, 304157/2022-8, and 406177/2021-0), and by Fundação Carlos Chagas Filho de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado do Rio de Janeiro (FAPERJ).*
*II Paper submitted to the International Conference on Power Systems Transients (IPST2025) in Guadalajara, Mexico.*
*$^{*}$ Corresponding author. E-mail addresses: conti@cpdee.ufmg.br (A.D. Conti), acsl@coppe.ufrj.br (A.C.S. Lima).*

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.epsr.2025.112146
Received 29 December 2024; Received in revised form 23 February 2025; Accepted 14 August 2025
Available online 25 August 2025

## 1. Introduction

Different formulations are available for the calculation of the ground return impedance of underground cables [1]. The integral equations proposed by Magalhães et al. [2] and Xue et al. [3], later demonstrated to be equivalent by De Conti et al. [4], are believed to be the most rigorous expressions for calculating this parameter within the limits of transmission line theory. Nevertheless, despite the validity of these equations, their computation requires the solution of improper integrals. This becomes inconvenient, especially when dealing with wideband cable models, which require the per-unit-length cable parameters to be calculated for many frequency samples covering a wide frequency range. For this reason, simplified expressions like series expansions or closed-form approximations are often used in electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation tools. As an example, the Line and Cable Constants (LCC) calculation tool available in the Alternative Transients Program (ATP) [5] relies on a series expansion of Carson’s integral to calculate Pollaczek’s integral [6]. The internal calculation module implemented in ATPDraw [7] is based on the Saad–Gaba–Giroux approximate formula [8]. The approximate expression of Wedepohl and Wilcox [9] is the default expression used in the cable parameter calculation tool available in PSCAD-EMTDC [10].

The fact that the Saad–Gaba–Giroux [8] and the Wedepohl and Wilcox [9] equations remain a valuable resource for calculating the per-unit-length parameters of underground cables indicates the convenience of using simplified expressions for such a task. Nonetheless, these equations were initially proposed for closely spaced cables, which limits their use to single-circuit cable configurations. In addition, both equations were originally proposed as an approximation to Pollaczek’s integral [6], which is only valid for low-frequency studies in low-resistivity soils [11,12]. Although a simple modification can be made in the Saad–Gaba–Giroux expression to make it compatible with Sunde’s equation [13], which is more general and accurate than Pollaczek’s equation, it remains to be demonstrated if this expression could be used to reproduce the more rigorous results provided by the quasi-TEM integral equations of Magalhães et al. [2] and Xue et al. [3]. Similar comment could be made regarding the Wedepohl and Wilcox equation [9], but the extension of this expression to the high-frequency range is impossible due to the very nature of the approximation used in its derivation.

In recent years, new simplified expressions have been proposed to avoid the calculation of the improper integrals associated with the ground return impedance computation [14–16]. One of these expressions, proposed by De Conti et al. [4], is a direct approximation of the equations of Magalhães et al. [2] and Xue et al. [3]. However, it is limited to closely spaced cables and frequencies up to few MHz. Another expression, recently proposed by De Conti and Lima [16], approximates Sunde’s integral equation [13] in a wide frequency range. Compared to the equation De Conti et al. [4], this expression is valid for greater cable separations and a higher upper frequency limit. However, Sunde’s equation is not as complete as the more general expressions of Magalhães et al. [2] and Xue et al. [3]. As a result, a systematic error

**Fig. 1.** Double-circuit underground cable configuration [17].