# Adaptive-Grained Exponential Integrator Algorithm for Efficient Simulation of Power Converter Systems
Jared Paull, Graduate Student Member, IEEE, Carl Knickle, Member, IEEE, Nicole Lofroth, Member, IEEE, Liwei Wang, Senior Member, IEEE, and Wei Li, Member, IEEE

**Abstract—**Electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation is increasingly important for complex power electronic converter system design and validation. This paper proposes an adaptive-grained exponential integrator (AGEI) algorithm designed to efficiently simulate power electronic networks. The AGEI algorithm relies on precomputation of carefully-chosen discretization steps to reduce memory burden. It then performs sequential intermediate integrations between discrete switching events to accelerate transient simulation. The variable time-step, high-order integration algorithm finds a balance between simulation run-time and computational overhead. The AGEI algorithm varies the number of the forcing function terms to meet desirable error thresholds. The proposed algorithm is L-stable and can be flexibly applied to stiff and non-stiff circuit systems, rendering it suitable for a wide arrange of power converter topologies and parameters. A hardware experimental study validates the AGEI algorithm’s accuracy while simulation case studies demonstrate the AGEI algorithm significantly improves numerical efficiency. It is shown in the typical converter case studies that the proposed algorithm enables more than 8-fold and 3-fold simulation speedup compared to popular simulation tools, i.e., Simulink and PLECS, respectively. The numerical efficiency gains of the proposed algorithm become more apparent for power converter circuits with only-DC input sources or stiff circuit systems.

**Index Terms—**Adaptive-grained exponential integrator (AGEI), discrete-state event-driven (DSED) simulation, state-space equation, electromagnetic transient simulation, power electronic system.

Received 16 March 2024; revised 23 July 2024 and 22 October 2024; accepted 1 February 2025. Date of publication 7 February 2025; date of current version 20 March 2025. This work was supported by the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council (NSERC) of Canada. Paper no. TPWRD-00424-2024. (Corresponding author: Liwei Wang.)

Jared Paull, Carl Knickle, Nicole Lofroth, and Liwei Wang are with the School of Engineering, University of British Columbia Okanagan, Kelowna, BC V1V 1V7, Canada (e-mail: jared.paull@ubc.ca; carlknickle@gmail.com; nicolelofroth@icloud.com; liwei.wang@ubc.ca).

Wei Li is with the OPAL-RT Technologies, Montréal, QC H3K 1G6, Canada (e-mail: wei.li@opal-rt.com).

Color versions of one or more figures in this article are available at https://doi.org/10.1109/TPWRD.2025.3539681.

Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TPWRD.2025.3539681

## I. INTRODUCTION
ELECTRO-MAGNETIC transient (EMT) simulation of power electronic converter circuit is a historically challenging task. Power converter circuits contain switching elements that rapidly change the circuit topologies. Frequent switching events introduce complex transients and alters the system matrices used to express the circuit. Demand for numerically efficient EMT simulation algorithms increases as power electronic systems grow increasingly complex. Fast EMT simulation aids in design and validation of existing or emerging power converter technologies [1]. Simulation of power electronic circuits involves in the integration of continuous state variables (currents and voltages), while accurately capturing converter switching behavior. Power electronic circuits often present numerically stiff problems, making the solver choice non-trivial. Low order implicit integration methods such as trapezoidal rule, backwards Euler method, or low order numerical differentiation formula are often used to guarantee numerical stability. These low order methods generally require a small discretization time-step to ensure accuracy, leading to many computed points. Additionally, small fixed time-step solvers are often implemented to accurately capture switching events [2]. Imprecise switching event detection can inject low order harmonics into waveforms or introduce unrealistic jitter, noise, and inductive current chopping [2], [3]. Switching interpolation techniques can be used to greatly reduce errors associated with switching event detection in fixed step solvers [3].

Variable time-step solvers serve as an alternative to fixed time-step solvers. Variable time-step solvers have been used to accurately pinpoint discrete switching events, eliminating the need for switching interpolation [4]. Variable step solvers reduce the step size when transients occur and then increase the step size once steady state is achieved [5]. By adapting the step size according to system transient behavior, both fast and slow transient phenomena can be captured with maximum efficiency [6]. The challenge with variable step solvers lies in choosing the suitable step size. It is not always clear when transient ends, or if all frequency transients have ended [6]. In [6], variable step algorithms are proposed which analyze transient trends to adapt the step size accordingly. Variable step solvers typically implement low order integration techniques which limit the maximum step size that they can use [4], [5], [6], [7], [8]. Although the variable-step techniques [4], [5], [6], [7], [8] in general compute fewer points than fixed-step solvers, these low-order variable-step solvers still require numerous computed points between switching events to ensure numerical accuracy. Still, variable step solvers are prevalent for offline EMT simulation of power electronic systems. Popular EMT simulation tool such as PLECS is equipped with the variable step Dormand-Prince (DOPRI) solver, while Simulink/Simscape Electrical toolbox utilizes Simulink suite of variable step ODE solvers including ode45, ode15s, ode23tb, amongst others. Recently, a variable