# Adaptive Heterogeneous Transient Analysis of Wind Farm Integrated Comprehensive AC/DC Grids
**Ning Lin**, Member, IEEE, **Shiqi Cao**, Graduate Student Member, IEEE, and **Venkata Dinavahi**, Fellow, IEEE

**Abstract**—The increasingly complex AC/DC network as a result of the massive integration of wind farms manifests the significance of a comprehensive transient study. In this work, the wind turbine (WT) and the DC grid are modeled in detail for the electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation to maximize its fidelity, whilst the AC grid transient stability is analyzed by dynamic simulation (DS). An interactive EMT-DS interface is thus introduced to enable their concurrency and subsequently form a co-simulation. The CPU which is dominant in system study faces a tremendous challenge in handling a great number of components albeit they exhibit homogeneity. The many-core graphics processing unit (GPU) featuring massive parallelism is therefore exploited and following the definition of an adaptive computing boundary, a flexible heterogeneous sequential-parallel processing architecture is proposed for efficient analysis of the wind-farm-integrated AC/DC grid. Topological reconfiguration of WTs is specifically carried out to reduce the numerical order whilst enhancing system homogeneity that enables the GPU to thoroughly utilize its peculiar property of single-instruction multiple-thread (SIMT) compute paradigm. Consequently, significant speedups can be attained by the proposed computing framework over pure CPU computation, while its accuracy is validated by the commercial EMT and dynamic security analysis tools PSCAD/EMTDC and DSATools, respectively.

**Index Terms**—AC/DC grid, doubly-fed induction generator, dynamic simulation, electromagnetic transients, graphics processing unit, multi-terminal DC, parallel processing, power system stability, wind farm.

Manuscript received August 16, 2020; revised October 11, 2020 and November 3, 2020; accepted December 5, 2020. Date of publication December 8, 2020; date of current version August 20, 2021. This work was supported by the Natural Science and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC). Paper no. TEC-00821-2020. (Corresponding author: Ning Lin.)

The authors are with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta T6G 2V4, Canada (e-mail: ning3@ualberta.ca; sc5@ualberta.ca; dinavahi@ualberta.ca).

Color versions of one or more figures in this article are available at https://doi.org/10.1109/TEC.2020.3043307.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TEC.2020.3043307

## I. INTRODUCTION
WORLD-WIDE wind energy has witnessed a dramatic level of penetration into the power system in a boom of energy supply diversification [1]. While alleviating a tremendous energy demand on the grid, the stochastic attribute of wind resources poses a practical challenge which turns out to be a major concern regarding the dynamic security of transmission and distribution networks [2]–[5]. The high-voltage direct current (HVDC) transmission has proven to be a promising solution for interlinking wind farms (WFs) and the AC grid, for merits such as high efficiency, and a grid-forming capability that enables the WFs to be independent of the main grid [6]–[8].

Electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation based on time-domain model discretization and linearization is an accurate computer-based approach for complex AC and DC systems study, and the dynamic simulation (DS) conducted using complex number calculations is adequate for power system electromechanical interaction analysis. Therefore, these simulations are intensively carried out to acquire system operation information that could be utilized to safeguard the grid against a variety of contingencies [9]–[12]. Hitherto, both methods have successfully fulfilled transient analysis with model simplification, such as aggregating the wind farms without considering the individuality of each wind turbine and its converter system [13], [14]. The pursuit of an accurate dynamic security assessment of the power system requires higher modeling fidelity, especially for the wind farm since its turbines distributed over a vast area are subject to distinct wind speed characteristics and the aggregation falls short of revealing the actual power surplus or deficiency in the AC/DC grid, other than dynamics of each turbine.

A heavy computational burden on the CPU, to some extent, justifies aggregating wind turbines (WTs) [15]–[17] or using simplified converter models [18], [19] in EMT and dynamic simulations, as a shortage of parallel processing capability would otherwise force repetitive computations of components even when they are topologically identical. The graphics processing unit (GPU) technology has made enormous strides over the past few years, and so has its application in high-performance computing of electric power systems [20]–[22]. Remarkable speedups over CPU computation were attained due to an extensive homogeneity in circuit elements, which far outweigh the opposite. Nevertheless, the GPU’s speed margin shrinks when irregularities grow and neutralize concurrency. For example, the HVDC converter could dilute the regularity of the integrated AC/DC grid contributed by thousands of wind turbines. The fact that various modern electric power systems will not always be efficiently handled by a single type of processor or even multiple processors loaded with fixed tasks prompts flexible coordination between CPU and GPU for transient analysis on heterogeneous sequential-parallel computing architecture as in this work.

Consequently, aiming to thoroughly exploit the available computing resources in a computer equipped with a standalone GPU, the two processors are flexibly assigned with different tasks: the CPU handles the AC/DC grid wherein its repetitiveness is inadequate to support massive parallelism; and the GPU is in charge of components with a large quantity, such as the wind turbines. To improve the homogeneity, topological reconfiguration is carried out to create a substantial number of