# Advanced Wideband Line/Cable Modeling for Transient Studies
Abner Ramirez, Senior Member, IEEE, Jesus Morales, Member, IEEE, Jean Mahseredjian, Life Fellow, IEEE, and Ilhan Kocar, Senior Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—The grouping of propagation modes in line/cable systems involving a large number of conductors has been central in recent research regarding the stability of simulations for electromagnetic transient (EMT) studies. This article presents three improvements to the existing wideband line/cable modeling techniques for EMT analysis. The first improvement consists of calculating optimum time delays such that the oscillations in the phase angle of the propagation function are reduced. The second is a novel strategy for grouping propagation modes. As a third improvement, the maximum fitting frequency of a rapidly decaying mode is limited when its magnitude is below a threshold value. It is demonstrated that these modifications improve the stability characteristics of time-domain simulation, compared to the existing implementation of line/cable models in an EMT-type software. The proposed modifications are applied to several cable systems, including a very challenging real system involving 96 cables and one double-circuit overhead line, all with a length of 250 m.

**Index Terms**—Curve fitting, frequency domain synthesis, electromagnetic transient analysis.

Abner Ramirez is with the Kestrel Power Engineering, Mississauga, ON L4Z 2T1, Canada, on leave from CINVESTAV campus Guadalajara, Guadalajara 45019, Mexico (e-mail: abner.ramirez@cinvestav.mx).
Jesus Morales is with the PGSTech-EMTP, Montreal, QC H2K 1C3, Canada (e-mail: jesus.morales@emtp.com).
Jean Mahseredjian and Ilhan Kocar are with the Polytechnique Montreal, Montreal, QC H3T 1J4, Canada (e-mail: jean.mahseredjian@polymtl.ca; ilhan.kocar@polymtl.ca).

## I. INTRODUCTION
The electromagnetic transient (EMT) studies area represents a backbone in the analysis of modern power systems. Having as background a strong theoretical framework, several EMT software tools are utilized by power engineers either for research or industry applications [1], [2].

Transmission lines and underground cables constitute important components of modern power systems for transmission and distribution of energy. There are several mathematical models that permit the simulation of such components together with other power systems devices. Those models have evolved to improve accuracy of the EMT phenomenon, to account for frequency-dependent parameters, and to involve a wide frequency band, among others [3], [4]. An overview on the state-of-the-art tools for the modeling and simulation of EMT in power systems is presented in [1].

The universal line model (ULM) is one of the most used wideband line/cable models for EMT studies [6]. However, it has been reported that the ULM may yield numerically unstable models mainly for systems composed of many cables and/or of short length [7]. Such numerical instability is due to the appearance of high residue/pole ratios and/or passivity violations [7]. The frequency dependent cable model (FDCM) partially resolved such issues for cable systems by fitting grouped modal contributions, i.e., fitting the propagation function directly in the phase domain, instead of modal propagation functions, requiring more poles [7]. FDCM is best suited for cables where eigenvectors can be merged and smoothed by grouping repetitive or similar eigenvalues. Although FDCM has been explored for some mixed systems, its efficient and accurate application to large mixed systems is an active research area, outside this paper’s scope.

The grouping of propagation modes and dealing with large number of conductors have been central in recent research related to the application and stability of the ULM. Logically, time delays converge for shorter cables, requiring a different approach. This paper presents a set of techniques for an improved implementation of the ULM. Three major changes are proposed. Firstly, the calculation of optimum time delays is performed on a minimum-phase basis. In other words, we find a time delay that renders a modal propagation function as close to a minimum-phase function as possible. This results in improved fitting accuracy and lower approximation order of the propagation function. Secondly, a simple yet effective adaptive grouping strategy is proposed, based on the closeness of time delays; this permits to substantially alleviate high residue/pole ratios. Thirdly, the maximum fitting frequency of a rapidly decaying modal propagation function is selected as the point where the magnitude is below a threshold value. This reduces the phase oscillations of propagation function at high frequencies and results in improved fitting accuracy and lower approximation order.

It is shown that the proposed modifications render smaller residue/pole ratios, less severe passivity violations, and stable time-domain simulations for the presented cases. Also, it is demonstrated that the enhanced implementation of ULM provides a solution for challenging cases where the existing ULM fails.

Section II presents the basic mathematical relations of the ULM. The three modifications to the existing implementation of ULM are described in Sections III to V, while Section VI presents several case studies. Some discussions, based on the obtained results, are presented in Section VII. Finally, Section VIII conclud