# Advanced EMT and Phasor-Domain Hybrid Simulation With Simulation Mode Switching Capability for Transmission and Distribution Systems

**Qiuhua Huang**, Member, IEEE, and **Vijay Vittal**, Fellow, IEEE

**Abstract**—Conventional electromagnetic transient (EMT) and phasor-domain hybrid simulation approaches presently exist for transmission system level studies. Their simulation efficiency is generally constrained by the EMT simulation. With an increasing number of distributed energy resources and nonconventional loads being installed in distribution systems, it is imperative to extend the hybrid simulation application to include distribution systems and integrated transmission and distribution systems. Meanwhile, it is equally important to improve the simulation efficiency as the modeling scope and complexity of the detailed system in the EMT simulation increases. To meet both requirements, this paper introduces an advanced EMT and phasor-domain hybrid simulation approach. This approach has two main features: first, a comprehensive phasor-domain modeling and simulation framework which supports positive-sequence, three-sequence, three-phase, and mixed three-sequence/three-phase representations and second, a robust and flexible simulation mode switching scheme. The developed scheme enables simulation switching from hybrid simulation mode back to pure phasor-domain dynamic simulation mode to achieve significantly improved simulation efficiency. The proposed method has been tested on integrated transmission and distribution systems. The results show that with the developed simulation switching feature, the total computational time is significantly reduced compared to running the hybrid simulation for the whole simulation period while maintaining good simulation accuracy.

**Index Terms**—EMT and phasor-domain hybrid simulation, multi-area Thévenin equivalent, simulation mode switching.

*Manuscript received August 9, 2017; revised December 19, 2017 and April 1, 2018; accepted April 28, 2018. Date of publication May 9, 2018; date of current version October 18, 2018. Paper no. TPWRS-01232-2017. This work was supported by the National Science Foundation under Grant EEC-9908690 at the Power System Engineering Research Center. (Corresponding author: Qiuhua Huang.)*

Q. Huang is with the Electricity Infrastructure Group, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, Richland, WA 99354 USA (e-mail: qiuhua.huang@pnnl.gov).

V. Vittal is with the Department of Electrical, Computer and Energy Engineering, Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ 85287 USA (e-mail: vijay.vittal@asu.edu).

## I. INTRODUCTION

Power system dynamic analysis requirements are significantly evolving due to the changing nature of generation and loads. A significant portion of newly installed generation resources and a variety of loads including induction motors are interfaced with the grid through power electronic (PE) converters [1]. However, existing transient stability (TS) simulation tools cannot adequately represent PE devices in sufficient detail, particularly during the faulted period [2]–[7]. Additionally, these tools cannot adequately represent single-phase air-conditioner compressor motors [9], which account for an increasingly large percentage of summer peak load in many power systems [10]. These modeling inadequacies can result in either an over- or under-estimate of the system reliable operation boundary and/or stability limits, which in turn results in systems operating under either higher risk or less efficient conditions. On the other hand, EMT simulation tools can simulate PE and single-phase devices in detail. However, they are not suitable for large system-level studies. Several different simulation methods, including EMT-TS hybrid simulation [2]–[8], frequency adaptive simulation [11] and dynamic phasor based approach [12], were proposed or developed to solve similar simulation challenges. Among them, the hybrid simulation approach has attracted the most attention from both industry and academia.

Previous research and development efforts on hybrid simulation mainly focused on the following three aspects: 1) network equivalent, including fundamental frequency based equivalent [6]–[8] and frequency dependent network equivalents [13]; 2) interaction protocols for improving efficiency and performance during fault periods [6]–[8]; 3) hybrid simulation program development [13]–[16]. Except for [15], others were developed only for transmission systems.

Except for the real-time simulator-based hybrid simulation, the overall computational efficiency of hybrid simulation for realistically large system applications is still not satisfactory, as shown in a recent study in [8]. It should be noted that the computational efficiency issue was not emphasized in previous studies mainly because the EMT (or detailed) systems in these studies were relatively small and simple [2], [3], [5]–[7]. Given the present trend of increasing application of non-conventional generation and loads as well as HVDC transmission [1], it is expected that a larger portion of the system with more complex and detailed models needs to be modeled in the EMT simulator. Consequently, the computational efficiency issue of the EMT simulator will constitute a significant bottleneck. While the performance of EMT simulators are improving, the improvement is not sufficient compared to the ever-increasing computational demands. One alternative to improve the computational efficiency of hybrid simulation is to enhance the simulation workflow. Previous studies in [2] and