# A Computationally Efficient Continuous Model for the Modular Multilevel Converter
Noman Ahmed, Student Member, IEEE, Lennart Ängquist, Member, IEEE, Staffan Norrga, Member, IEEE, Antonios Antonopoulos, Student Member, IEEE, Lennart Harnefors, Senior Member, IEEE, and Hans-Peter Nee, Senior Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—Simulation models of the modular multilevel converter (MMC) play a very important role for studying the dynamic performance. Detailed modeling of the MMC in electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation programs is cumbersome, as it requires high computational effort and simulation time. Several averaged or continuous models proposed in the literature lack the capability to describe the blocked state. This paper presents a continuous model which is capable of accurately simulating the blocked state. This feature is very important for accurate simulation of faults. The model is generally applicable, although it is particularly useful in high-voltage dc (HVDC) applications.

**Index Terms**—Blocking, continuous model, electromagnetic transient (EMT) programs, high-voltage dc (HVDC) transmission, modular multilevel converter (MMC), voltage-source converter (VSC).

## I. INTRODUCTION
Voltage-source-converter (VSC)-based high-voltage dc (HVDC) transmission systems is today an established technology [1], [2]. Conventional two-level or three-level VSCs have the drawback of high switching losses due to a high switching frequency [3], [4]. The modular multilevel converter (MMC) allows the reduction of the switching frequency down toward the fundamental frequency, whereas the harmonic content of the output voltage is still kept low owing to a large number of levels. Other benefits are high scalability due to modular design and no requirement for a common dc-link capacitor [5]–[9]. The first MMC-based HVDC link, the Trans Bay Cable project, was commissioned already in 2010. In the near future, it is most likely that HVDC transmission systems to be built will employ the MMC (or variants thereof) [10].

A schematic diagram of one phase leg of a three-phase MMC is shown in Fig. 1. Each phase leg consists of an upper and a lower arm, each constituted by $N$ series-connected submodules. Each submodule acts as a controllable voltage source which consists of a half-bridge circuit with a dc storage capacitor. During normal operation, at any instant only one of the two switches in the submodule is ON. When the switch $S_1$ is ON, the submodule is said to be inserted and the output voltage of the submodule is the same as the voltage across the capacitor. On the other hand, when the switch $S_2$ is ON, the submodule is said to be bypassed and the voltage across the submodule is zero. When both $S_1$ and $S_2$ are OFF, the submodule becomes blocked and current is only conducted through freewheeling diodes. Accordingly the capacitor will be inserted (and charged) when the arm current is positive, while it will be bypassed (keeping its voltage) when the arm current is negative. The arm inductance $L$ is needed to limit fault and parasitic currents [11]. The arm resistance $R$, models the losses.

**Fig. 1.** Equivalent circuit for one phase leg of the MMC.

Depending on the purpose, MMC modeling in electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation programs can be done with different degrees of detail. For stress investigations in critical components of the converter during faults inside or immediately outside the converter, it is important to follow the behavior of each individual submodule, or even a certain switch, during a transient. In such studies, a detailed model of the MMC must be employed, in which even it might be necessary to represent the parasitic inductances and capacitances inside the submodules. In contrast, for studies investigating power-system behavior, whole MMCs may appear as adjustable voltage sources.

An MMC used for HVDC transmission might have several hundreds of submodules per arm. Hence, detailed simulation models of MMCs need to represent hundreds or even thousands of switching elements, resulting in high computational effort and simulation time. To overcome this, averaged or continuous simulation models, which provide similar dynamic behavior from a system perspective as the detailed simulation models, are beneficial. Reference [12] proposes a simplified model of the MMC, but unfortunately