# Algorithms for fast calculation of energization overvoltage of hybrid overhead line-cable transmission lines based on full frequency-dependent parameters

Borui Gu a, Han Li a, Shurong Li a, Xiaoguang Zhu a, Xuefeng Zhao b, Junbo Deng a, *, Guanjun Zhang a

a State Key Laboratory of Electrical Insulation and Power Equipment, Xi’an Jiaotong University, Xi’an, 710049, China
b Electric Power Research Institute of State Grid Shaanxi Electric Power Company, Xi’an, 710054, China

* Corresponding author.
E-mail address: dengjb@mail.xjtu.edu.cn (J. Deng).

**Keywords:** Cable, Overhead line, Energization overvoltages, Modal theory, Numerical inverse Laplace transform, Full frequency-dependent parameters

**Abstract:** This paper addresses the challenges associated with the time-consuming and complex nature of using electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation software, such as PSCAD/EMTDC, for calculating transient overvoltages in complex power grids. To overcome these challenges, we propose a novel algorithm for fast calculation of energization overvoltages in hybrid overhead and cable transmission lines. The proposed algorithm begins by calculating the frequency-dependent parameters of the transmission lines in the full frequency domain. These parameters are then decoupled using phase-mode transformation. Subsequently, the algorithm derives the boundary conditions of the transmission line based on its topology, leading to corresponding complex frequency-domain voltage expressions. To obtain the calculation results of energization overvoltages along the hybrid transmission lines, the algorithm applies mode-phase transformation and an improved numerical inverse Laplace transform (NILT). To verify the accuracy and speed of the proposed algorithm, it is applied to a 330 kV hybrid overhead line and cable transmission system with a length of 56.8 km. The results demonstrate that the proposed algorithm achieves a maximum relative error of less than 0.261 % compared to the frequency-dependent phase model (FDPM) used in PSCAD. Additionally, the calculation time of the proposed algorithm is shown to be only 32.654 % – 58.649 % of the FDPM’s calculation time.

## 1. Introduction
Overhead lines (OHLs) have been partially or completely replaced by underground cables in urban areas due to increasing land costs [1]. However, the combination of OHLs and underground cables in hybrid transmission lines introduces differences in transient overvoltage behavior, particularly for no-load energization overvoltages, which can have a significant impact on insulation levels. In addition, the transient overvoltage simulation of hybrid cable and overhead transmission systems using electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation software is time-consuming, which may significantly reduce the efficiency of engineering and research work [2]. Therefore, accurate and efficient calculation and calibration of no-load energization overvoltages are crucial for hybrid OHL and cable transmission lines.

Existing EMT models for calculating no-load energization overvoltages can be categorized into lumped parameter models and distributed parameter models [3]. The lumped parameter model, such as the π model, is commonly used in power frequency steady-state studies but is limited for transient analysis as it does not consider wave propagation [4]. Distributed parameter models include frequency-independent and frequency-dependent models. The frequency-independent model, like the Bergeron model, offers more accurate power loss approximation compared to the π model by incorporating distributed parameters and lumped parameter resistance [5]. Frequency-dependent models, such as the J. Marti model, Noda model, and FDPM (frequency-dependent phase model), consider the frequency-dependent characteristics of transmission line parameters. The J. Marti model, based on modal theory, utilizes rational function approximation and implicit integration for time-domain response calculation. However, it can lead to calculation errors for coaxial cable lines and requires user-specified calculation frequency, introducing potential errors [6]. The Noda model is considered the most rigorous frequency-dependent model but suffers from a large number of full matrices, reducing computational speed, and convergence issues in certain cases [7]. FDPM, recognized as the highly precise, advanced, and extensively employed EMT calculation model in existing software worldwide, is founded on the fundamental transmission line model theory [8]. In contrast to other models, FDPM uniquely incorporates the propagation coefficient and characteristic impedance to represent transmission lines, recognizing their frequency-dependent nature. By calculating discrete values of these parameters in the frequency dom

Fig. 1. Diagram of the equivalent circuit of mode domain circuit.

Additionally, the proposed algorithm simplifies the modeling process of the transmission system, resulting in improved modeling efficiency for complex transmission systems.

The structure of the paper is as follows: Section 2 provides a detailed explanation of the theoretical foundation and specific details of the proposed algorithm. Section 3 presents the establishment of a power system model based on a 330 kV hybrid transmission system located in Northwest China. In Section 4, the performance of the algorithm is