# Algorithm for fast calculating the energization overvoltages along a power cable based on modal theory and numerical inverse Laplace transform

Han Li $^a$, Peixin Yu $^a$, Shurong Li $^a$, Xuefeng Zhao $^b$, Junbo Deng $^{a,*}$, Guanjun Zhang $^a$

$^a$ State Key Laboratory of Electrical Insulation and Power Equipment, Xi’an Jiaotong University, Xi’an, 710049, China  
$^b$ Electric Power Research Institute of State Grid Shaanxi Electric Power Company, Xi’an, 710054, China

**Keywords:** Power cable, Energization overvoltage, Modal theory, Laplace transform, Numerical inverse Laplace transform, Frequency dependent phase model

**Abstract:** Transient overvoltage caused by energization may damage the insulation in a power cable transmission system. Therefore, overvoltage along the cable should be calculated and evaluated carefully. Calculation based on traditional commercial software is time-consuming, therefore, there is a need to develop a new algorithm to improve the computational efficiency. First, coupled cable conductors are transformed into independent modes through phase-mode transformation. Then, the voltage formula of each independent mode in the complex frequency domain is obtained through Laplace transform. Finally, energization overvoltages along the cable are calculated using numerical inverse Laplace transform (NILT) and mode-phase transformation. The proposed algorithm is applied to a 330 kV cable line with a length of 9.6 km to certify the accuracy and computational efficiency. Compared with frequency dependent phase model (FDPM) in PSCAD/EMTDC, relative errors of the obtained results are less than 1%, and the maximum CPU time consumed is only about 8%. The proposed algorithm can improve the computational speed of cable energization overvoltages greatly on the premise of ensuring accuracy and may be contributing to actual applications.

## 1. Introduction

With rapid urbanization, there is a strong demand to transfer traditional overhead lines (OHL) into underground power cable lines [1]. The risk of suffering severe overvoltages increases owing to their larger capacitance compared with OHLs [2]. For high-voltage cable power transmission systems, energization overvoltage is one of the severest overvoltages that can occur in the system, which should be simulated or calculated before the construction of the cable transmission project [3]. When equipment such as a circuit breaker is operated in an actual transmission system, energization overvoltages should be checked to avoid damages to the insulation [4].

A commercial program for electromagnetic transient (EMT) calculation such as PSCAD/EMTDC and EMTP, adopts the pi model, Bergeron model, Noda model, J. Marti model, and FDPM to model the power cable [5]. The PI model is a lumped-parameter model, and the other models are all distributed-parameter models. The application of the PI model is limited, and it can only be considered for modeling when the length of the cable is very short or the wave propagation time does not exceed the time step in the simulation [6]. The Bergeron model is a Norton equivalent model based on the traveling wave theory, which combines a lossless transmission line that takes into account the wave impedance $Z_0$ and the wave speed $c_0$ with a resistance $R$ that characterizes the attenuation [7]. It is a single-frequency parameter model and is often used in steady-state calculations. The Noda model is a frequency-dependent model which calculates the cable parameters in the phase domain rather than the frequency domain. However, not only full parameter matrices of the power cable are supposed to be calculated in this model, but the convolution processes are also introduced, which will lead to a significant decrease in computational speed [8]. The J. Marti model is a frequency-dependent model with relatively high accuracy, which performs rational function fitting in the $s$-domain. It is suitable for OHL modeling. However, it requires the user to specify the dominant frequency manually before the simulation, which may lead to a more complex modeling process and lower accuracy [9]. The FDPM is the most accurate and commonly used frequency-dependent model in the simulation software and is also the reference model for comparison in this study. It operates on the principle that the full frequency-dependence of a transmission system can be represented by the propagation function and characteristic admittance [10,11].

The aim of all distributed-parameter models mentioned above is to solve the telegrapher’s equations with higher accuracy and faster computational speed. In addition to the methods employed in these models, the telegrapher’s equations can also be solved by applying the combination of the modal theory and NILT. At present, there have already existed some classical NILT algorithms such as the Gaver-Stehfest method, Schapery method, Weeks method, Talbot method, and Fourier series method, which are powerful when the expressions in the complex frequency domain are available. However, these methods are rarely applied to the modeling process of the power cable with a large number of cable sections. By using the modal theory, unnecessary coupling of cable loops can be avoided, and the combination of Laplace transform and NILT can eliminate the limitation on the minimum time step, which may be helpful in improving the computational efficiency and bringing faster computational speeds.

*Fig. 1. Diagram of the distributed parameter circuit of single-phase transmission line.*