## Alternative method to include the frequency-effect on transmission line parameters via state-space representation

Tainá F.G. Pascoalato$^{a,*}$, Anderson R.J. de Araújo$^{b}$, Sérgio Kurokawa$^{a}$, José Pissolato Filho$^{b}$

$^{a}$ Department of Electrical Engineering, São Paulo State University (UNESP), 56 South Brazil Ave, Ilha Solteira, 15385-000, São Paulo, Brazil
$^{b}$ School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Campinas (UNICAMP), 400 Albert Einstein Ave, Campinas, 13083-872, São Paulo, Brazil

**Keywords:** Electromagnetic transient, Transmission line, Cascaded circuit, Lightning performance

**Abstract:** This article describes an alternative method and investigates its performance on the transient responses considering a frequency-dependent lumped parameter model (FDLPM) to represent the transmission line (TL) in the literature. This model includes the fundamental behavior of the frequency dependency on longitudinal parameters, and it is developed directly in the time domain (without the use of frequency-to-time conversion tools). The alternative method individually solves a system of state-space equations for each $\pi$ circuit of the LPM. Consequently, this method reduces the order of the state-space matrices, providing excellent performance associated with lower computational efforts (faster speed) compared to that obtained with the classical method. The alternative method was used to calculate the electromagnetic transients (current and voltages) in the single- and three-phase transmission lines subjected to energization maneuver and lightning strike for several scenarios at the receiving end. All responses are calculated using a programming code in MATLAB. Results demonstrated that the alternative method closely follows the responses calculated with the classical, indicating its excellent accuracy. Besides, the smaller dimension of state-space matrices lead to low computational times, varying from 230 to 300 times smaller, depending on the line configuration compared to the other method, assuming the same fixed time step.

✩ This study is financed by the Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior - Brasil (CAPES) - Finance Code 001 and by the São Paulo Research Foundation (FAPESP) (Grants: 2019/01396-1 and 2020/10141-4).
* Corresponding author. E-mail address: tfg.pascoalato@unesp.br (T.F.G. Pascoalato).

## 1. Introduction

Transmission lines (TLs) are one of the main components in the electric power system, which are subjected to several types of disturbances, such as energization (switching maneuvers), lightning strikes, and faults. These disturbances result in electromagnetic transients that may affect the operation of the TLs. Consequently, the quality of the energy delivered to consumers is impacted, which can lead to economic losses for consumers. Besides that, the electric power system contains several components that can have nonlinear operating characteristics and time-variable elements (e.g., rectifiers, surge arresters, lightning arresters, transformers, pre-insertion resistors, loads) and nonlinear phenomena such as the Corona effect on the phase conductors [1–3].

In this frame, the transmission line models can be developed in the frequency- or time domains, having their own advantages and disadvantages. Firstly, concerning the frequency-domain models, the most famous FD line models available on the electromagnetic transient (EMT)-type programs are the JMarti [4] and Universal Line Model (ULM) [5]. The first model uses the fitting of the characteristic impedance $Z_C(\omega)$ and propagation function $H(\omega)$ of the line (or underground cable) using Bode’s fitting techniques based on the asymptotic approximation, dealing with residues and zeros of the rational approach [6]. For this purpose, the modal decomposition employing transformation matrices (with constant or FD elements) is required [4,6,7]. Recently, several works proposing an enhancement of the JMarti line model using the Vector Fitting approach using real poles have been presented [7–9]. Limitations occur when underground cable or transmission lines with strong asymmetric (leading to problems on the eigenvectors of the transformation matrices) are considered for the transient analysis [6]. On the other hand, the ULM employs the Vector Fitting technique directly in the phase-domain based on the FD rational approximation of the admittance matrix $Z_C(\omega)$ and propagation matrix $H(\omega)$ using the real and complex poles and residues [5,6]. Then, the limitations are related to finding the correct number of poles for these fitting techniques associated with their convergence. Including nonlinear elements in TL models in the frequency domain can be complex since the transient responses employing the numerical inverse transform require a high number of frequency samples, window functions, and truncation in their computations. This procedure can be cumbersome and associated with high computational costs, especially when a good accuracy transient response is needed [10,11]. Then, the TL models developed directly in the time domain are an attractive alternative for studying the electromagnetic transients in power systems.

the longitudinal impedance is fitted with branches of $RL$-circuits to include the frequency dependence on these line parameters. Several cases considering single- and three-phase transmission lines, both located on soil with a resistivity $1,000\ \Omega\cdot\text{m}$, subjected to energization maneuver and lightning st