# An Automatable Approach for Small-Signal Stability Analysis of Power Electronic-Based Power Systems Using EMT Companion Circuits
Vinay Chindu and A. M. Kulkarni, Senior Member, IEEE

*Manuscript received 7 July 2022; revised 2 January 2023; accepted 10 March 2023. Date of publication 4 April 2023; date of current version 25 July 2023. Paper no. TPWRD-01016-2022. (Corresponding author: Vinay Chindu.)*
*The authors are with the Department of Electrical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Bombay, Mumbai 400076, India (e-mail: vinaychindu@gmail.com; anil@ee.iitb.ac.in).*
*Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TPWRD.2023.3264296*

**Abstract**—The increasing presence of power electronic (PE) controlled devices in power systems has widened the bandwidth of transients to be studied for grid stability. While these transients are normally studied using time-domain simulation (TDS), wide bandwidth linear time-invariant (LTI) state-space models are a useful complement to TDS for diagnostics, controller design and parametric analysis. A general automatable method to compute an LTI sampled-data model of a PE-based circuit is presented in this paper. The proposed method is based on the techniques employed in electro-magnetic-transient (EMT) programs to perform TDS of PE-based circuits. The method uses the building blocks of EMT nodal formulation such as conductance matrix of companion circuit and its LU factors computed during TDS, interpolation and chatter elimination corrections, and EMT model of the firing angle control system. The method yields a small-signal LTI sampled-data model which is amenable to eigenanalysis and is illustrated using simple PE-based circuits such as a buck converter and a grid-connected STATCOM with closed-loop control.

**Index Terms**—Electro-magnetic-transient (EMT) program, small-signal analysis, state-space model, sampled-data model.

## I. INTRODUCTION
Energy sources in traditional power grids were predominantly synchronous machine based. Grid stability analyses were primarily concerned with low frequency rotor swings (0.1–2 Hz). With the increasing penetration of power electronic (PE) converter interfaced renewable energy sources and numerous installations of FACTS and HVDC devices, power systems have become hybrid dynamical systems with both continuous-time and switching dynamics. The PE converter controls are of multiple time-scales with fast inner control loops and slow outer control loops. Hence they can interact with slow electromechanical oscillations as well as with fast electromagnetic transients. As a result, phenomena of wider bandwidth (tens of Hz to hundreds of Hz) such as sub-synchronous torsional and control interactions (SSTI, SSCI) and harmonic instabilities such as second harmonic instability in LCC-HVDC systems are increasingly of concern for grid stability. A detailed literature survey and summary of various dynamic phenomena in PE-based power systems is provided in [1], [2]. The wider bandwidth transients cannot be studied using the conventional fundamental frequency positive sequence phasor models as these models assume the electric network to be in a quasi-sinusoidal steady state. Stability studies of PE-based power systems using time domain simulation (TDS) programs is a widely used approach as it can easily include wide-bandwidth models with detailed nonlinearities and perform large-signal disturbance studies. The inferences drawn from a TDS study, however, are largely specific to the case simulated and thus a large number of disturbance cases have to be simulated to assess small-signal stability. In the small-signal linear time-invariant (LTI) state-space modelling approach, handling detailed models is generally cumbersome but the stability inferences are more nuanced with information such as eigenvalues, participation factors, observability and controllability of modes. This information is very useful for diagnostics, parametric analysis, and an informed design and tuning of controls. Hence small-signal LTI models can be a useful complement to TDS studies.

### A. Stability Analysis of Time-Periodic Systems
The wide-band models of PE-based power systems are periodically time varying and nonlinear. This is due to the presence of periodic switching in PE modules, and nonlinear mathematical modules such as phase-locked-loops (PLLs) in control system. Hence, the steady state of PE-based power systems is not a fixed fundamental frequency phasor but is periodic and non-sinusoidal in nature. The small-signal models of PE-based power systems in phase variables are linear time-periodic (LTP) and not LTI. This is because they are obtained by linearizing the dynamical equations along a periodic steady state and not about a fixed equilibrium point.

The techniques developed for stability analysis of LTI models are not directly applicable to LTP models. Many of the popular methods for stability analysis of LTP models are based on transforming the model variables. For example, in balanced three-phase systems with negligible lower order harmonics, Park’s transformation can be applied to obtain an approximate LTI model in dq0 variables; however this approach may be inaccurate for systems with phase imbalance and low pulse PE modules like TCSCs [3]. Several other methods to obtain an accurate LTI model of LTP systems have been studied in literature such as dynamic phasors [4], generalised switching functions [5], the availability of the periodic steady state for the given circuit.
2) The method is general enough and uses many of the com-