# An Efficient Phase Domain Synchronous Machine Model With Constant Equivalent Admittance Matrix
Yue Xia, Ying Chen, Member, IEEE, Yankan Song, Student Member, IEEE, Shaowei Huang, Member, IEEE, Zhendong Tan, and Kai Strunz

**Abstract**—In this paper, a new synchronous machine model is developed for electromagnetic transients program type simulations. The stator circuit is expressed in the $abc$ phase domain. The machine model is represented as a Norton equivalent with a current source in parallel with a constant Norton admittance. The machine equations are reformulated so that the computational effort required for the modeling of the machine is reduced. Test studies demonstrate the accuracy of the proposed synchronous machine model and show that the proposed model is computationally more efficient than the existing constant conductance phase domain model and voltage-behind-reactance model.

**Index Terms**—Constant admittance matrix, direct interface, electromagnetic transients program (EMTP), phase domain (PD) model, power system simulation, synchronous machine.

**TABLE I**
SUMMARY OF RELEVANT STATE-OF-THE-ART MODELS OF SYNCHRONOUS MACHINES BASED ON NODAL ANALYSIS TECHNIQUE

Manuscript received June 30, 2018; revised October 20, 2018; accepted January 12, 2019. Date of publication February 18, 2019; date of current version May 22, 2019. This work was supported in part by the National Key Research and Development Plan of China (2018YFB0904500), in part by the National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant 51477081, and in part by the Technology Project of State Grid Xinjiang Electric Power Company (5230DK16001M). Paper no. TPWRD-00757-2018. (Corresponding author: Yue Xia.)

Y. Xia, Y. Chen, Y. Song, S. Huang, and Z. Tan are with the Department of Electrical Engineering and Applied Electronic Technology, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China (e-mail: xiayuexiayue@163.com; chen_ying@tsinghua.edu.cn; sykfmlrc@163.com; huangsw@tsinghua.edu.cn; 664183185@qq.com).

K. Strunz is with the SENSE Laboratory, Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, Technische Universität Berlin, Berlin 10587, Germany (e-mail: kai.strunz@tu-berlin.de).

## I. INTRODUCTION
The modeling of synchronous machines has been an active topic of research for many years, a number of models have been developed for the representation of synchronous machines in power system analysis. The synchronous machine models for the study of transients can be classified into two major categories based on the modeling approaches used: models in state-variable (SV)-based simulators [1]–[5] and models in nodal-analysis-based programs [6]–[13]. This paper focuses on the modeling of synchronous machines for electromagnetic transients program (EMTP)-type simulations based on the nodal-analysis-based simulation approach [14], [15]. To provide a good review of the properties of the relevant state-of-the-art models of synchronous machines using techniques of nodal analysis, various models are summarized in Table I.

In the modeling of synchronous machines, the $qd0$ transformation is popular. The major advantage of transformation from the stator phase variables to the $qd0$ variables is that it results in constant inductances [16], [17]. However, the inverse $qd0$ transformation is required when the $qd0$ model is interfaced with the network model which is expressed in phase domain [6]–[8], [11]. In [9] and [18], the phase domain (PD) synchronous machine models were proposed for EMTP-type solution. The stator circuits are represented in the $abc$ phase coordinates. In [10], the voltage-behind-reactance (VBR) synchronous machine model which also represents the stator circuit in the $abc$ phase coordinates was developed. The admittance matrices of the PD and VBR models mentioned above depend on the rotor positions. It is, therefore, necessary to modify the machine admittance matrix when the rotor positions change.

Achieving constant admittance matrix for the PD and VBR synchronous machine models is very challenging due to the structure of synchronous machine equations [10]. In [13], a constant conductance phase domain (CC-PD) synchronous machine model was developed by adding an artificial damper winding. The equivalent admittance matrix of the CC-PD model is constant and independent of the rotor positions. However, the parameters of the additional artificial damper winding need to be carefully selected. The effect of additional winding may become significant during high-frequency transients.

The work presented in this paper leads to a new synchronous machine model. Two major contributions are elaborated upon. Firstly, a synchronous machine model in the phase domain is developed. The model is represented as a controlled current source in parallel with a constant Norton admittance. Thanks to the constant admittance, the modification of the entire network admittance matrix is avoided. Secondly, the machine equations are reformulated, and the expression for the controlled current source is simplified considerably. The number of mathematical operations required for modeling the synchronous machine is reduced, resulting in savings in computation time. Furthermore, three tests are performed to examine the accuracy and efficiency of the proposed model versus several state-of-the-art models.

In Section II, the conventional PD synchronous machine model is reviewed. A constant machine resistance matrix is f