# An Enhanced Average Value Model of Modular Multilevel Converter for Accurate Representation of Converter Blocking Operation
Xuekun Meng$^1$, Student Member, IEEE, Jintao Han$^1$, Student Member, IEEE, Joel Pfannschmidt$^1$, Liwei Wang$^1$, Member, IEEE, Wei Li$^2$, Member, IEEE, Jean Belanger$^2$, Senior Member, IEEE
1. The University of British Columbia Okanagan, BC, Canada, liwei.wang@ubc.ca
2. OPAL-RT Technologies, QC, Canada, wei.li@opal-rt.com

**Abstract**—Modular Multilevel Converter (MMC) has demonstrated significant advantage in harmonic elimination and improved converter efficiency due to the use of large number of submodules and low switching frequency of the submodules. However, the massive switching events of the Insulated-Gate Bipolar Transistors (IGBTs) in the MMC have also introduced high computational burden when modelling the MMC in electromagnetic transient tools. Various research efforts have dedicated to developing the numerically efficient average value models (AVMs) for the MMC. This paper gives an overview of the existing control signal based AVMs of the MMC and proposes an enhanced average value model with arm current initialization method to compensate for the initial condition issue in the previously developed AVMs. The proposed approach is evaluated in a point-to-point MMC HVDC system under Simulink/eMEGAsim environment.

**Index Terms**—Average value model, electromagnetic transient, high voltage direct current system, modular multilevel converter.

## I. INTRODUCTION
The development of Modular Multilevel Converter High Voltage Direction Current (MMC-HVDC) system enables the interconnection between the existing AC power transmission grids and the remote renewable power plants with low harmonic distortion and reduced converter losses [1]. It utilizes a series of individual submodules; each can be inserted or bypassed to produce the nearly perfect-sinusoidal waveforms at the point of common coupling to the AC grids. However, the modelling the MMC in the Electromagnetic Transient (EMT) type tools is challenging due to the massive switching operations presented in the MMC. The fast and simultaneous switching events have to be modelled using micro-second time step to accurately account for the non-linear phenomenon in the power electronic components, including the Insulated-Gate Bipolar Transistors (IGBTs). The switching-based model can provide the most detailed representation of the behavior of MMC since each converter component is explicitly modelled and solved in a large matrix. However, the model with detailed semiconductor switching representation has also introduced tremendous computational burden for the dynamic simulation of the interconnected AC and HVDC systems. Therefore, developing a numerically efficient model for the MMC in EMT-type tools is essential for improving the overall simulation performance of the integrated power grids while maintaining the accurate representation of the MMC.

Switching-function-based Average Value Models (AVMs) are proposed in [2]–[4] to simplify the individual switching of IGBTs in the submodules. The submodule capacitors in the MMC arms are lumped into equivalent arm capacitors. This simplification adapts the insersion indices from the modulation controller to predict the equivalent arm capacitances and corresponding arm voltages at each simulation time step. Arm voltage behavior, including arm voltage ripples and circulating current, can be accurately represented with improved simulation efficiency compared to the detailed switching-based MMC model. However, the use of switching function in the AVMs requires converter modulation controllers and may increase the complexity of the AVMs for different MMC topologies (e.g. full-bridge MMC, clamped-double submodule MMC [5], and alternate arm converter [6]).

A control-signal-based AVM is proposed in [7], where the switching operation in the submodules and the converter modulation are not required. The model uses six controlled voltage sources and a controlled current source to represent the fundamental frequency behavior of the converter as seen from the AC and DC sides of the MMC. The direct application of the reference signals in the AVMs enables simple model structure for various MMC topologies. The reference [8] further extends the concept in [7] and simplifies the voltage sources in the upper and lower arms into a three-phase Thevenin equivalent circuit. The model is very efficient and allows for straightforward implementation in various EMT-type software packages. However, the AVMs in [7] and [8] are insufficient to model the blocking mode operation of the MMC due to the lack of free-wheeling diode representation. Several improved AVMs are proposed in [9] using the concept of Blocking Module (BM) to establish the connection between the AC and DC side during the converter blocking operations. The AVMs with BM improve the modeling accuracy for the blocking mode operations, however, increase their implementation complexity in EMT-type software packages.

This paper proposes an enhanced AVM (EAVM) of the MMC based on the state-of-the-art control-signal-enabled AVMs. The proposed EAVM features easy model implementation and improved modeling accuracy for EMT-type software tools. The proposed EAVM uses controlled current sources for the arm inductors in the BM to initialize the arm inductor currents at converter blocking instant. The current initializing method is used to compensate for the DC current discontinuity issue during the transition between normal operation and blocking mode of the AVMs with BM. The proposed method is validated using the detailed switching-based model and the previously developed AVMs in a point-to-point HVDC system under Simulink/eMEGAsim platform [10].

## II. BASIC OPERATION OF MMC
The three-phase MMC circuit configuration is illustrated in Fig. 1a. Each phase includes an upper arm and a lower arm, which is composed of $N$ numbers of submodules. The number voltages by sorting the submodule capacitor voltages. Additionally, submodule voltage ripples can produce circulating currents in the converter arms in the form of second-order harmonic. Circulating current controlle