## An Extended Habedank’s Equation-Based EMTP Model of Pantograph Arcing Considering Pantograph-Catenary Interactions and Train Speeds
Ying Wang, Student Member, IEEE, Zhigang Liu, Member, IEEE, Xiuqing Mu, Ke Huang, Hongrui Wang, Student Member, IEEE, and Shibin Gao

**Abstract—**Pantograph arcing is a more and more common and prominent phenomenon in AC electrified railway system, especially with the increase of pantograph-catenary (PAC) interaction and train speed. In order to address this issue, an extended Habedank’s equation-based model, by means of electromagnetic transients program (EMTP), is presented to obtain equivalent modeling for pantograph arcing studies considering train speeds in this paper. First, the pantograph arcing phenomenon is investigated, such as transient mechanisms and influencing factors. Second, based on the features of existing and emerging pantograph arcing, Habedank’s arc equations are further derived and studied by improving voltage gradient and power dissipation. Next, due to the relationship among voltage gradient, power dissipation and arc length, the maximum detachment interval law between pantograph and contact wire is obtained by establishing the finite element model (FEM) for PAC interaction, and the ultimate extended Habedank’s equation-based EMTP model of pantograph arcing considering different train speeds is acquired. Then, the related model parameters are discussed and determined. Finally, based on the China Beijing-Yizhuang HSR line model in EMTP, the arc characteristic differences considering loads under different parameter values are compared and analyzed. The comparison results illustrate that the proposed model can be feasible for determining and revealing the pantograph arcing characteristics and influences in HSR system as well as the PAC contact loss problems.

**Index Terms—**High-speed railway (HSR), pantograph arcing, electromagnetic transients program (EMTP), finite element method (FEM), arc parameters

## I. INTRODUCTION
PANTOGRAPH arcing in electrified railways is a common phenomenon [1]. Its main cause is a variable air gap due to mechanical oscillation of the train, irregularity of the contact wire and influence of the high-speed airflow. Especially, along with the increasing train speed [2], such as the traveling CRH380CL-type locomotive speed 400km/h up to the beginning of 2015 in China, it prompts the vibrations of pantograph-catenary (PAC) system and leads to the electric

The mechanisms and interferences of pantograph arcing, such as volt-ampere characteristics [1], [3], [7], electromagnetic effects [4]-[5], [9] and power quality influences [6]-[7], etc., have been studied to a great extent. In addition, different pantograph arcing equipments are also designed and analyzed (e.g., [7]-[12]).

**Fig. 1.** Schematic of PAC sliding electric contact.

To illustrate and discuss pantograph arcing, based on experimental tests and simulated analysis, it is very necessary to establish proper arc model, especially considering different train speed in AC electrified railway system. Generally, arc models can be classified into three categories: black-box models, parameter models and physical models. First, for the black-box models, based on the Mayr’s [13] and Cassie’s [14] mathematical equations, some improved combinations of Mayr’s and Cassie’s equations are proposed mainly in order to extend the area of validity, such as Kema [15], Schwarz [16], Habedank [17] model, etc.. Second, the parameter models, can describe the arc characteristics of some special occasion, and are described by complex functions, such as numerical fitting formula [18], empirical formula [19] and so on. Last, the physical models [20] are depicted by the equations of fluid dynamics. However, the boundary condition derivation of this model needs the support of much experimental data.

More necessarily, the detailed understanding of how the pantograph arcing features interact with the rest of traction feeding system is very essential. Among common commercial software packages, electromagnetic transients program (EMTP) can realize the analysis of short-circuit faults, load-flow problems, transient circumstances, etc, and it can