## Advanced modeling of magnetic cores for damping of high frequency power system transients
Marcin Szewczyk, Senior Member, IEEE, Kamil Kutorasiński, Jarosław Pawłowski, Wojciech Piasecki, Member, IEEE, Marek Florkowski, Senior Member, IEEE

**Abstract—** This paper presents novel approach to modeling of magnetic cores for high frequency transient analyses in power system applications. A method is presented of obtaining frequency dependent, nonlinear equivalent circuit model of magnetic cores, suitable for simulations of transients in high frequency and high current conditions. The model can be used in any EMTP-like simulation software for power system transient analyses and hardware design of transient mitigation solutions. The model has been developed based on the frequency characteristics of the complex impedance of a magnetic core, measured for different operating points on the magnetization curve. Based on the measured characteristics and on some basic material properties, a nonlinear equivalent model composed of a set of lumped elements was established. The presented method is generic, however, the results are presented for a magnetic core of nanocrystalline type and the model implementation is shown in EMTP simulation software. The exemplary model is dedicated for the frequency range = kHz ÷ MHz, and for the current range = ÷ kA. The model accuracy was validated with selected measurement results and the accuracy of the method is thoroughly discussed.

**Index Terms—** Frequency dependence, magnetic cores, modeling, power system transients, saturation effect, simulations.

## I. INTRODUCTION
### A. Damping of power system transients with magnetic cores
High frequency transient phenomena originating from switching operations pose risk to power equipment. Filtering of high $di/dt$ or high $dv/dt$ transients can effectively be achieved by using high frequency magnetic cores comprising ferrites, amorphous, or nanocrystalline materials. Application areas for such cores include switching of inductive loads with Vacuum Circuit Breakers (VCB) [1], [2], or operations of Gas-Insulated Switchgear (GIS) disconnectors [3], [4], [5]. Optimization of particular solution’s design requires transients studies using app

system transients was first introduced in a practical industrial application for MV systems, to protect arc furnace transformers from transients originating from operations of VCB [1]. For this application, the filtering cores, typically coupled with a shunt resistor, are introduced in series to the main current path. The inductance of the core is selected to dominate the inductance of the system between the VCB and the transformer, so that the core takes over the oscillations occurring due to the transfer of the magnetic energy trapped in the inductive element to the capacitances of the system (e.g. cable in [1]), and the shunt resistor coupled to the core is selected to control the oscillating character of the system. The core is typically modeled by a two-terminal circuit consisting of inductor and resistor elements connected in parallel [2]. The impedance of the model is close to zero at 50/60 Hz, while for higher frequencies the impedance is almost purely resistive. The travelling waves reflections are avoided by selection of the high frequency impedance so that its value is close to the surge impedance of the system.

Using magnetic cores for mitigation of transients originating from operations of GIS disconnectors is one of the concepts that is currently being under development for application in EHV and UHV class GIS. The cores of ferrite [6], [7], [8], amorphous [4], and nanocrystalline [4], [9] type are placed directly on the GIS conductor. Physical mechanisms responsible for transients mitigation include eddy current- and magnetization- losses [4], [9]. These mechanisms are both frequency- and saturation-dependent [10]. According to e.g. [4], [11], [12] the saturation effect of the material magnetization characteristics is an important factor leading to substantial reduction of transients attenuation effectiveness.

State-of-the-art methods on modeling of magnetic cores for mitigation of transients in GIS are reviewed in [3], where also a new magnetic core model is introduced for mitigation of Very Fast Transient Overvoltages (VFTO) originating from the GIS