# An Electromagnetic Model for the Calculation of Tower Surge Impedance Based on Thin Wire Approximation
Bamdad Salarieh, H. M. Jeewantha De Silva, Aniruddha M. Gole, Fellow, IEEE, Akihiro Ametani, Life Fellow, IEEE, and Behzad Kordi, Senior Member, IEEE

**Abstract—**When lightning strikes a transmission line tower or shield wires, electromagnetic waves propagate through the tower back and forth, increasing the voltage across insulator strings. This can eventually lead to a back-flashover (BF), which may cause damage to equipment or costly power outages. To calculate the over-voltages and predict the probability of a BF, an accurate model of the tower and its grounding system is needed in electromagnetic transient (EMT) type simulators. There are a number of theoretical models for the equivalent circuit of a transmission tower. However, they either are not accurate enough or they are derived for a certain type of transmission tower, which limits their applicability. Numerical electromagnetic analyses have less simplifications compared to the theoretical solutions and are by far less expensive than field measurements. They also have the flexibility to analyse any type of tower. In this paper, the direct method for the measurement of tower impedance is implemented by NEC4 and applied to a 400-kV double circuit tower with all its details. The process of obtaining the wire network of the tower used in this paper is completely automated and it can be applied to any other type of transmission tower. The results of the numerical simulations are compared to those obtained with existing tower models. The developed model in this paper is capable of considering all the details of the tower and including the finite resistance of the ground and grounding electrodes.

**Index Terms—**Electromagnetic analysis, power system transients, numerical analysis, surge protection.

## I. Introduction and Background

Calculation of overvoltages in power transmission lines struck by lightning has been the subject of much research in the past decades. The accurate representation of the transmission line tower and its grounding system is an essential part of studying the transient behavior of the power system. The advances made in the protection mechanisms require a greater precision in the calculations concerning the transmission line tower.

The approaches for modeling transmission line towers can be divided into three categories: (i) theoretical, (ii) numerical, and (iii) experimental that are performed/implemented either in the time [1]–[14] or frequency domains [15]–[17]. The numerical analyses are based on a) the Method of Moments (MoM) [17]–[19], b) Finite Element Method (FEM) [20], [21], c) Hybrid Electromagnetic Model (HEM) [22], or d) Finite Different Time Domain (FDTD) method [23]–[28]. Experimental measurements have been performed on full scale towers [28]–[32] or scaled towers [4], [11], [29], [33], [34]. Regardless of the approach, the aim of such analysis is to either find an equivalent impedance or derive an equivalent electric circuit for the transmission line tower with the same response as the measured waveforms. In the theoretical approaches, it is not possible to consider all the tower details, such as its cross arms or bracings. Furthermore, the tower body is approximated by simple geometries such as a cylinder (e.g. [5]) or cone (e.g. [4]). There are only a few experimental studies on a limited number and types of in-service towers as such measurements require an outage and are quite costly. Due to the restrictions of the theoretical and experimental approaches, developing an automated process for the numerical analysis of transmission towers is receiving more attention in recent years.

Considering the computational electromagnetic (CEM) techniques, FEM, MoM and FDTD can be used to solve the full-wave Maxwell’s equations [35]. The MoM is a numerical technique employed for the solution of integral equations, while FEM and FDTD are differential-equation based. As such, FEM and FDTD need to discretize the entire simulation space whereas the MoM will only require a discretization of the wire structure. This is an advantage of using MoM for the simulation of open-region problems, such as the simulation of transient behavior of transmission line towers in this paper, that provides an efficient technique. Hence, the MoM is used in this paper in the numerical simulations.

Following a thorough overview of the existing models for the transmission line towers and their underlying assumptions, a numerical method based on thin wire approximation of the tower is presented in this paper. The Numerical Electromagnetic Code (NEC4) is used to determine