# An Efficient Half-Bridge MMC Model for EMTP-Type Simulation Based on Hybrid Numerical Integration

**Authors:** Shilin Gao, Member, IEEE, Ying Chen, Senior Member, IEEE, Yankan Song, Member, IEEE, Zhitong Yu, Member, IEEE, and Yenan Wang

**Abstract**—Electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation is critical and fundamental in the design and operation of the modular multilevel converter (MMC). This article proposes a highly efficient EMT simulation model for MMC based on hybrid numerical integration. The topology and operational principle of MMC are elaborated first. Based on this, an efficient simulation model for MMC is proposed. Each arm of the MMC is reduced to a two-node Norton equivalent circuit in the main network simulation. The computation of the capacitor dynamic equations is decoupled from that of the arm inductor dynamic equation. They are computed in a leapfrog manner. This makes the equivalent conductance of the MMC arm constant and greatly improves the simulation efficiency. Moreover, the dynamic equations of the capacitors are also decoupled from each other. Various operational conditions of the MMC are also considered, and accuracy and adaptability are thus ensured. Extensive studies on power systems with different scales verify the accuracy and improved efficiency of the proposed EMT simulation model for MMC.

**Index Terms**—Constant conductance, electromagnetic transient simulation, hybrid numerical integration, midpoint rule, modular multilevel converter.

*Manuscript received 6 July 2022; revised 26 November 2022 and 15 March 2023; accepted 22 March 2023. Date of publication 28 March 2023; date of current version 26 December 2023. This work was supported by the Natural Science Foundation of China under Grants U22B2096, 52211530051, and 52007101. Paper no. TPWRS-01001-2022. (Corresponding author: Ying Chen.)*

Shilin Gao is with the College of Electrical Engineering, Sichuan University, Chengdu 610065, China (e-mail: gaoshilin@scu.edu.cn).

Ying Chen and Yenan Wang are with the Department of Electrical Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China (e-mail: chen_ying@tsinghua.edu.cn; wangyena18@tsinghua.org.cn).

Yankan Song and Zhitong Yu are with the Sichuan Energy Research Internet Institute, Tsinghua University, Chengdu 610213, China (e-mail: songyankan@cloudpss.net; yuzhitong@cloudpss.net).

Color versions of one or more figures in this article are available at https://doi.org/10.1109/TPWRS.2023.3262584.

Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TPWRS.2023.3262584

## I. INTRODUCTION

WITH the improved current and voltage ratings of the insulated gate bipolar transistor (IGBT), the voltage source converter (VSC) expands rapidly in the fields of power generation, transmission and distribution [1], [2]. This is mainly due to their flexibility and immunity against commutation failure in comparison with the line-commutated converters. Within the VSCs, the modular multilevel converter (MMC) is one of the most promising because of its high voltage ratings, small harmonic components and low losses [3]. In recent years, MMCs are widely used in wind energy and photovoltaic plant integration systems, high voltage direct current (HVDC) transmission systems, flexible ac transmission systems and medium voltage distribution grids [4], [5], [6], [7].

For the design and operation of MMC systems, the electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation is indispensable [8], [9]. In [10], a real-time EMT simulator for hardware-in-the-loop (HIL) testing of modular multilevel converter controller is presented based on RTLAB, a state-space method-based simulator. A 1500-SM MMC system, along with the I/O protocol driver, is simulated using the simulator with a time step of 500 ns. In [11], a real-time simulation of MMC systems is presented under the framework of the nodal analysis method (i.e., EMTP-type simulation). By constructing a fictitious Bergeron transmission line model on the MMC arm, the MMC arm and the main network are decoupled and the computational burden is reduced. In EMT simulation with a time step smaller than 1.5 μs, the fictitious Bergeron transmission line model does not affect the accuracy. When the time-step increases, the accuracy may not be ensured. Both of the above two simulation methods are applicable for real-time simulation and HIL tests of MMC with a very small time-step, and give results close to reality. So far, the computational time of offline EMT simulation for the power system with MMCs may be unacceptable [12]. There are two main reasons for the low efficiency. First, an MMC system will add thousands of electric nodes to the power system in EMT simulation. Thus, the nodal equations of the system are high-dimensional. Second, due to the switching of converters, the system equivalent conductance matrix is time-varying and changed frequently during the simulation. This leads to frequent LU decomposition for the equivalent conductance matrix. For the first problem, the averaged-value model (AVM) of MMC [13], [14], [15] is an effective solution, where each arm of an MMC is simplified as a controlled current source. Nevertheless, the AVM is dependent on the operational conditions and is unable to simulate the inner dynamics of MMC accurately. In addition to AVMs, the Thévenin equivalence-based (TE-based) models of MMC are presented in [16], [17], [18], which consider the dynamics of the submodule (SM) of the MMC. Each MMC is equivalent to six Thévenin circuits in the main network solution. When