# An EMT based dynamic frequency scanning tool for stability analysis of inverter based systems
Chen Jiang a,* , Zhiqiang Liu a, Rohitha Jayasinghe a , Dharshana Muthumuni a , Aniruddha M. Gole b
a Manitoba Hydro International, Winnipeg, Canada
b Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada

**Keywords:** Bode plot, Electromagnetic transients (EMT) simulation, Frequency scanning, Grid forming (GFM) converter, Modular multilevel converter (MMC)

**Abstract:** This paper introduces an automated dynamic frequency scanning tool designed to predict stability in power systems. The tool integrates frequency scanning and stability analysis into a single, user-friendly platform, which is validated through Electromagnetic Transients (EMT) simulations and traditional small-signal stability techniques. Case studies involving a modular multi-level converter (MMC) system are conducted using two grid-forming (GFM) controller strategies: voltage-source type and current-source type virtual synchronous generators (VSGs). The effectiveness of the tool is demonstrated by comparing stability predictions from the scanning method with results from root locus analysis and EMT simulations, showing that it provides a reliable and efficient approach for predicting system stability. A key contribution of this paper is the comparative analysis of the two GFM controller types, offering valuable insights into their performance and stability characteristics. The results highlight that the current-source type VSG can operate effectively in a strong ac system, which is a challenge typically faced by the voltage-source type VSG.

## 1. Introduction
THE global focus on combating climate change and addressing energy shortages has led to a rapid increase in the integration of renewable energy sources (RES) into the power grid. As a result, voltage source converters (VSCs), which are primarily used to interface these resources with the grid, have seen a significant rise in deployment, and these systems are referred to as inverter-based resources (IBR) [1]. Among the various VSC topologies, the Modular Multi-Level Converter (MMC), originally proposed in 2001 by Prof. R. Marquardt [2], has emerged as a preferred choice due to its high efficiency, and the ability to generate near-sinusoidal output waveforms which eliminates the need for additional filtering.

VSCs can generally be classified into two control modes: grid-following (GFL) and grid-forming (GFM). In GFL mode, the converter synchronizes with the grid by tracking the system voltage’s phase using a Phase-Locked Loop (PLL) to generate reference signals for controlling the switching of power electronics devices, such as IGBT, etc. In contrast, GFM converters generate their own output voltage, with magnitude and phase adjusted to meet the required active and reactive power. This approach does not rely on an external PLL, making it inherently more flexible for operation in isolated or weak grid conditions [3]. One common GFM strategy is the virtual synchronous generator (VSG), where the converter mimics the behavior of a synchronous generator (SG) to provide stable voltage and frequency control.

The concept of VSG was introduced in [4], based on the electro-mechanical swing equation and a fundamental damping mechanism. Various enhanced VSG configurations have been proposed to improve performance. For instance, an adaptive VSG (AVSG) control, which utilizes online grid impedance estimation, has been proposed to ensure robust operation [5]. Additionally, a fast current loop has been incorporated to mitigate harmonic distortion [6], and energy shaping techniques have been integrated to include a complete physical implementation of a SG into the controller’s behavior [7], among other improvements. Since the controller outputs are voltages signals which can be directly generated by the converters, this kind of VSG can be classified as voltage source type VSG. However, one limitation of these voltage source type VSG models is that their power-electronic switches cannot handle the large fault currents typical with synchronous generators, necessitating the inclusion of current-limiting controls. These current limiters rely on a decoupled current loop with Proportional–Integral (PI) controllers to restrict the current references, thereby preventing overcurrent conditions. Unfortunately, as demonstrated in [8], the introduction of these PI controllers can lead to instability in VSG systems, particularly when connected to a strong ac network.

Alternatively, the current source type VSG, which more accurately models the mechanical and electrical dynamics of a real SG [9]. This strategy does not require a PI controller for current lim [16]. In the past frequency scanning methods have been applied to various domains while achieving acceptable results. For example, the sequence admittance model of a STATCOM is derived using simulation-based frequency scanning techniques [12]. Similarly, dynamic phasor-based scanning has been used to model single-phase converter systems [13]. Frequency scanning in the dq0 domain has been demonstrated in the context of a CIGRE DCS1 system [14]. In the αβ frame, it has also been applied to a Doubly-Fed Induction Generator (DFIG) wind farm, where it