# An Investigation of Electromagnetic Transients for A Mixed Transmission System with Overhead Lines and Buried Cables
Haoyan Xue, Member, IEEE, Jean Mahseredjian, Fellow, IEEE, Jesus Morales, Member, IEEE, Ilhan Kocar, Member, IEEE, and Alain Xemard

H. Xue, J. Mahseredjian, and J. Morales are with Polytechnique Montréal, Montréal, QC H3T 1J4, Canada (e-mail: haoyan.xue@, jeanm@polymtl.ca). I. Kocar is with the Hong Kong Polytechnic University (ilhan.kocar@polyu.edu.hk). A. Xemard is with EDF, France (alain.xemard@edf.fr).

**Abstract**—An electromagnetic transient study has been performed based on a practical 500 kV mixed transmission system. The system has overhead lines, submarine cables and underground cables. An exact expression of earth-return impedance for submarine cable has been developed. A new equivalent homogeneous earth method (EHEM) is also proposed based on the exact formula. The influences of air, seawater, seabed, wired armor structure and multi-layer seabed on series impedance and modal propagation constants of submarine cable are investigated. A novel modeling procedure on parametrical side of mixed transmission system is proposed in this paper. Moreover, the input sequence impedances of mixed transmission system are studied based on traditional Line / Cable Constant routines and the new method. Transient simulations are also performed using classical and new methods. The results are further validated with recently proposed MoM-SO technique.

**Index Terms**—Mixed transmission system, earth-return parameters, propagation constant, time domain study, EMT-type software

## I. INTRODUCTION
The implementation of underground and submarine cables interconnected with existing overhead transmission systems is becoming more and more common [1]-[5]. As a result, it is predicted that mixed systems consisting of overhead lines and buried cables will be dominant in future power grids.

Several recent investigations demonstrate that the transient characteristics of mixed transmission systems differ from those of separate overhead or cable systems. In these mixed systems the electromagnetic waves have more complicated reflections and refractions at the discontinuity of overhead lines and cables [1], [2]. Consequently, mixed transmission systems may experience more serious overvoltage problems and require detailed electromagnetic studies to evaluate the withstand voltage of cables and the characteristics of the arresters used to limit overvoltage. The Cigre technical brochure [3] studies the lightning overvoltage which affects a cable inserted in an overhead line. It shows that its maximum value decreases with the length of the cable and makes the interesting conclusion that in some configuration it is possible to specify a lower lightning withstand voltage for the cable.

The above-mentioned studies are performed using existing electromagnetic transient (EMT) type simulation tools [6]. The internal and external parameters of overhead lines and cables are calculated based on existing theories [7]-[9], using classical transmission line (TL) approach [10]-[12]. These existing line and cable parameter calculation methods will be referred to, hereinafter, as Classic Parameter Calculation (CPC). It should be noted that the simulation of transmission systems using classical TL approach or CPC has several important drawbacks as discussed in [10]-[17]. Moreover, insulation coordination on mixed and non-mixed transmission systems must rely on accurate EMT-type simulations. Therefore, significant improvements in EMT modeling of mixed transmission systems must be made.

Considering the above facts, this paper introduces a novel modeling method of mixed transmission system based on recently developed extended TL approach [10]-[17]. In Section II, a practical 500 kV mixed transmission system [4] with combination of overhead lines, submarine cables and underground cables is introduced and described. Section III concentrates on the investigations of responses on mixed transmission system in frequency domain. An exact formula (EF) of earth-return impedance for submarine cable considering air, seawater and seabed mediums is proposed. Based on the EF expression, a new equivalent homogeneous earth method (EHEM) is developed for submarine cable using an approach similar to [15], [18]. The EHEM has simplified expressions in comparison to EF method. The influences of seabed resistivity, depth of seawater, multi-layer seabed and structures of armor wires on series impedance and propagation constant of submarine cable are made clear. Also, the scan of input impedance on mixed transmission system is performed. The results evaluated by EF and EHEM are compared with the new Line / Cable Data calculation method in EMTP [16], [19], hereinafter abbreviated as LCD. This new method is based on the Method of Moments - Surface Operator (MoM-SO) [20], [21] and includes both series and shunt per-unit-length parameters [10], [11], [15].

In Section IV, steady-state, energization and short-circuit studies are performed on the mixed transmission system using EMTP [19] with its wideband (WB) line and cable models [22].