# An improved approach for modeling lightning transients of wind turbines

Zhang Xiaoqing^a, Zhang Yongzheng^b, Xiao Xiang^a,⁎
^a School of Electrical Engineering, Beijing Jiaotong University, Beijing, China
^b Global Energy Interconnection Research Institute, Beijing, China

⁎ Corresponding author.
E-mail address: xizhanv@163.com (X. Xiao).

**Keywords:** Lightning, Wind turbine, Transient modeling, Multiconductor system, Circuit model

**Abstract:** A modeling approach is proposed in this paper for calculating lightning transient responses on wind turbines (WTs). The equivalent circuits are built for blade, dynamic contact part, tower body and grounding system, respectively. The improved tower model discretizes the tower body into a truncated pyramid multiconductor system and can describe the geometrical feature of the actual tower body in a more precise manner. An entire circuit representation is given for the WT by connecting the respective equivalent circuits, from which the lightning transient responses can be obtained. The experimental measurement is also made with a laboratory-scale WT. The validity of the proposed approach is checked by comparing the calculated results with the measured ones. Then, the proposed approach is applied to the lightning transient calculation of an actual WT with 2 MW to predict its potential rise during lightning stroke.

## 1. Introduction
Wind turbines (WTs) are normally located in the opened and exposed areas. Owing to the tall structures, modern multi-megawatt WTs are especially prone to lightning strikes. When a WT is struck by lightning, a high lightning current flows from the attachment point to the grounding system and can cause a severe damage to the blade material and WT components. As wind power generation undergoes rapid growth, lightning protection of WTs has become a critical aspect for safety and reliability of wind power systems. Determination of the lightning transient responses can provide a valuable support for a proper design of the protection system. In order to analyze the lightning transient behavior of WTs, a number of modeling approaches have been presented in literature [1–6]. A realistic model has also been developed for numerically simulating the fast transient phenomena in the grounding grids of power systems [7], which can provide a valuable reference for lightning transient calculation of WTs. As far as the previous approaches are concerned, the imperfection arises mainly in transient modeling of the tower body, namely the longest lightning current path on WTs. A surge impedance of transmission line was first used for representing the tower body [1,2]. With a segmented processing for the tower body, a cascade hollow conductor model was then proposed [3,4]. Recently, a cylindrical conductor cage was also presented by a few researchers to model the tower body [5,6]. These models of the tower body are undoubtedly simple and easy to implement into lightning transient calculation; however, they can not exactly describe the geometrical feature of the actual tower body in the shape of circular truncated cone. In view of the imperfection of the previous approaches, an improvement is made in this paper for modeling lightning transients of WTs. The tower body is modeled as a discrete multiconductor system and an adequate consideration can be given to its geometry of circular truncated cone. The equivalent circuit of the grounding system is built for calculating the fast transients under the subsequent negative stroke. Moreover, the blade and dynamic contact are also modeled in a reasonably simplified manner. On the basis of integrating the four sections on the lightning current path, an entire circuit representation is given for the WT. The lightning transient responses on the WT can be determined from the solution to the circuit equations. A laboratory-scale WT has also been built and the measured results are used to verify the validity of the proposed approach.

## 2. Circuit modeling of wind turbines
In order to calculate the transient responses, the current carrying path on a WT struck by lightning needs to be represented by the equivalent circuits. It mainly consists of the blade, dynamic contact part, tower body and grounding system, as shown in Fig. 1. Therefore, the equivalent circuits are built on the basis of the four sections.

### 2.1. Equivalent circuits for blade and dynamic contact part
The blade is the most vulnerable component of the WT for direct lightning stroke. To lead the lightning current to flow to the ground during lightning stroke, the down conductor is usually placed inside the installing the image of the segment. The imaginary segment is installed at a symmetrical position below the ground surface and depicted by the dotted lines, as shown in Fig. 3. The length of the imaginary segment is equal to that of the respective real segment. For a vertical segment, as shown in Fig. 3(a), its inductance is calculated by Neumann’s integral [10]