# A System for Optimal Design of Pressure Constrained Branched Piped Water Networks
N. Hooda, O. Damani*
Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Bombay, Mumbai, India

* Corresponding author. Tel.: +91-93230-03401.
E-mail address: damani@cse.iitb.ac.in

## Abstract
Rural water networks in the developing world are typically branched networks with a single water source. The main design decision to be made for such networks is the choice of pipe diameters from a discrete set of commercially available pipe diameters. Larger the pipe diameters, better the service (pressure), but higher is the capital cost. In general, each link (connection between two nodes) in the network can consist of several pipe segments of differing diameters. For such networks, existing design tools solve the constrained-optimization problem heuristically [1] [2]. In [3], an ILP formulation is proposed for the special case of one pipe diameter per link. This means that currently one can either get an optimal solution for the special case of one piped segment per link or get a non-optimal solution for the general case of multiple pipe segments per link. In this work, we come up with a model that solves the general formulation while still maintaining optimality. Our model has an LP formulation. It not only manages to optimally solve the general case, it also has a runtime performance that is better than both the heuristic approach to the general problem as well as the optimal approach to the specific problem (one pipe per link). To aid the designers of piped water networks, we have developed an optimization system called JalTantra that implements this model. It also has GIS functionality integrated for ease of providing network details. It is publicly available at http://www.cse.iitb.ac.in/jaltantra/ .

**Keywords:** Water distribution network; Network cost optimization; Linear program

## 1. Introduction
Piped water network cost optimization has been studied for more than 30 years now. Several constrained optimization techniques from Linear Programming [4] to Genetic Algorithms [13] have been employed to solve various variations of the cost optimization problem. In this work, we focus on the cost optimization of rural piped water networks. These networks are typically gravity fed, since reliable electricity supply is not a given. Pumps are deployed only at the water source and not in the rest of the distribution network. Acyclic (branched) networks are common since the redundancy provided by cyclic (looped) networks is an unaffordable luxury.

One of the most important aspects in the design of these systems is the choice of pipe diameters from a discrete set of commercially available pipe diameters. In general, each link (connection between two nodes) can consist of several pipe segments of differing diameters. The larger the pipe diameters, the better the service (pressure), but the higher is the capital cost. The branched piped water network cost optimization problem is the selection of pipe diameters that minimize the system cost while providing the requisite service (pressure at demand points).

BRANCH [1] is an optimization tool by the World Bank that attempts to minimize pipe cost for branched pipe networks with a single water source. Though it has limited capabilities in terms of number of pipes (at most 125), and does not guarantee optimal solution, it is used ([11], [14], [15]) in the developing world as the only alternatives are expensive commercial tools like WATERGEMS [2]. Even WATERGEMS does not guarantee optimal solution since it uses a genetic algorithm.

In [3], an ILP formulation is proposed for the special case of one pipe diameter per link. This means that currently one can either get an optimal solution for the special case of one piped segment per link [3] or get a non-optimal solution for the general case of multiple pipe segments per link [1], [2]. In this work, our aim is to come up with a formulation that solves the general formulation while still maintaining optimality.

For the general problem, in addition to the user provided pressure and flow related constraints, following additional constraint is inferred from [5]: in the optimal solution, each link consists of at most two pipe segments of adjacent diameters from the available diameter set. We take two approaches to the multiple pipes per link formulation. In the first approach, we use the fact that the optimal solution will contain at most two pipe segments per link [5]. In the other approach, we make no assumption on the number of pipe segments per link. Surprisingly, the latter formulation’s runtime performance is much better than the former. But knowing the structure of the optimal solution and trying to capture that as a constraint led to a much worse runtime performance! The second formulation solves the problem optimally and efficiently. Its solution indeed only contains at most two pipe diameters for each link in the network. The structure that we were trying to enforce for the first formulation has come out naturally in the second.

Using the general formulation we have implemented a water network design system called JalTantra. The system also has GIS integration for ease of adding network details. The overall goal for JalTantra is wide reaching and will attempt to solve several network design constraints like source selection, storage location/capacity, choice of pipe diameters, water supply scheduling, cost allocation etc. The scope of the present study is restricted to determining the pipe diameters in a single source acyclic (branched) network.

The rest of the paper is structured as follows. Section 2 describes the problem formulation. Section 3 is a brief description of the environment used to build the JalTantra system. Section 4 describes the comparison results of the different models on six different networks. Conclusions and future work directions are pr