# An Iterative Real-Time Nonlinear Electromagnetic Transient Solver on FPGA
**Yuan Chen**, Student Member, IEEE, and **Venkata Dinavahi**, Senior Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—A real-time transient simulation of nonlinear elements in transmission networks requires significant computational power. This paper proposes an iterative nonlinear transient solver on a field-programmable gate array. The parallel solver, based on the compensation method and the Newton–Raphson algorithm (continuous and piecewise), is entirely implemented in Very high speed integrated circuit Hardware Description Language. It also involves sparsity techniques, deeply pipelined arithmetic floating-point processing, and parallel Gauss–Jordan elimination. To validate the new solver, two case studies are simulated in real time: surge arrester transients in a series-compensated line and ferroresonance transients in a transformer, with time steps of 5 and 3 μs, respectively. The captured real-time oscilloscope results demonstrate high accuracy of the simulator in comparison to the offline simulation of the original system in the ATP version of electromagnetic transient program.

**Index Terms**—Electromagnetic transient simulation, field-programmable gate arrays (FPGAs), nonlinear networks, parallel algorithms, real-time systems.

*Manuscript received February 25, 2010; revised June 10, 2010; accepted July 11, 2010. Date of publication July 23, 2010; date of current version May 13, 2011. This work was supported by the Natural Science and Engineering Research Council of Canada.*

The authors are with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB T6G 2V4, Canada (e-mail: yuanchen@ece.ualberta.ca; dinavahi@ece.ualberta.ca).

Color versions of one or more of the figures in this paper are available online at http://ieeexpl

## I. INTRODUCTION

NONLINEAR elements play a significant role in the inception and propagation of transient overvoltages and overcurrents in electrical power systems. The commonly occurring nonlinear phenomena in power systems include magnetic saturation in transformers, ferroresonance, switching surges, and lightning strikes. An accurate simulation of nonlinear phenomena is vital from the perspective of such studies as insulation coordination, protection system design, power quality, and, in general, for maintaining the transmission and distribution infrastructure in a reliable working condition. In the offline electromagnetic transient program (EMTP), the nonlinear solution has been well analyzed and implemented. However, in real-time simulators, accurate simulation of nonlinear elements is very challenging due to its computational burden.

In offline EMT-type software programs such as ATP, EMTP-RV, and PSCAD/EMTDC, the representation of nonlinear elements is either through a piecewise linear approximation method (also known as pseudo nonlinear method) or an iterative method [1], [2]. In the former, the nonlinearity is represented by several linear segments. At each simulation time step, it is actually a specific linear element, such as a constant inductance, several of which can be used to represent, for example, the saturation characteristic of a transformer. However, the computational bottleneck occurs as the operating point switches from one linear segment to the next, necessitating a recalculation of the system admittance matrix, which results in a substantially longer run time for a large network. The frequent switching between linear segments is also known to cause numerical oscillations. For a more accurate simulation of nonlinear elements, an iterative method based on Newton–Raphson (N–R) can be used. Within each simulation time step, several N–R iterations are required for convergence, and each iteration entails a recalculation of the Jacobian matrix and solution of a set of linear equations. This process is very time consuming. In an offline simulator, the computational burden can perhaps be overlooked; however, it becomes quite cumbersome in a real-time simulator. In a deterministic hard real-time system built using general-purpose CPU or DSP-based sequential hardware, an iterative nonlinear transient solution may not even be implementable using a requisite time step mainly due to the uncertainty of convergence of the iterations within the time step and the limited computational power of such hardware.

The increasing need for higher computational bandwidth for real-time electromagnetic transient simulation has been met by the field-programmable gate array (FPGA) [3]. The FPGA is a reconfigurable digital logic device which contains a variety of programmable logic blocks called logic elements (LEs), which can be configured using a Hardware Description Language (HDL). The main advantages of FPGA over sequential hardware are wide parallelism, deep pipelining, and flexible memory architecture. With the dramatic increase in LE density, clock frequency, and advanced Intellectual Property (IP) cores such as floating-point arithmetics, FPGAs show great potential for real-time hardware emulation [4], [5] and control applications [6]–[8].

This paper proposes an iterative real-time nonlinear transient solver on the FPGA. The solution method is based on the compensation method [9] together with N–R iterations [10]. Sparse matrix methods and a parallel Gauss–Gordon elimination method [11] are employed for the linear solution. To take advantage of the inherent parallel architecture of FPGA, the nonlinear solution algorithm is fully paralleled and pipelined using a floating-point number representation. Although FPGA-based transient solvers currently exist for power networks including frequency-dependent elements [3], they address exclusively linear networks; an iterative nonlinear transient solver in real time has not yet been reported in the literature. The