## An Inverter Model Simulating Accurate Harmonics with Low Computational Burden for Electromagnetic Transient Simulations
Shuntaro Horiuchi, Student Member, IEEE, Kenichiro Sano, Member, IEEE and Taku Noda, Senior Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—The electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation of a power system involving power-electronics converters requires a fairly small time-step size to consider switching of the converters, thus leading to a heavy computational burden. To accelerate such simulations, this paper generalizes the time average method (TAM), originally developed for real-time simulations, so that it becomes suitable to off-line EMT simulations. For obtaining accurate current waveforms with a large time step, the TAM and the proposed method represent each leg of an inverter by voltage sources, and its output voltage is modified by interpolation at an instance of switching. The original TAM was intended for the primitive backward Euler method. This paper contributes to generalize it for the trapezoidal integration method which is widely used in off-line simulation programs. In addition, the proposed method uses a simple formula to identify the switching instance for the implementation on off-the-shelf PCs, rather than a hardware counter in an FPGA as used in the TAM. This paper shows that the proposed method enables to extend the time step by a factor of five without deteriorating the accuracy. A case study demonstrates reduction of computational time by a factor of three for the off-line simulation of a single-phase grid-connected inverter with reasonable reproduction of harmonics.

**Index Terms**—Electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation, grid-connected inverter, harmonic analysis, voltage interpolation.

## I. INTRODUCTION
The widespread use of photovoltaic and wind power generation has increased grid-connected inverters in power systems. Such inverters interact with the power system and sometimes cause power quality issues related to harmonics [1]–[3]. Since the dynamic characteristics of inverters can be dealt with time-domain circuit simulations such as EMTP or EMTDC, they have been used as a major tool to investigate such interactions involving harmonics. The circuit simulation is also referred to as an electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation to distinguish it from phasor domain simulations or electromagnetic field simulations.

devices. The model which is called a switching (SW) model in this paper can accurately simulate the harmonics produced by the switching operation. However, the SW model needs a fairly small simulation time step (around 1/100 of the switching cycle). Even if a single inverter is connected to the power system, all the system has to be calculated with the same small time step. Thus, the simulation takes considerable computation time. One of the technical challenges in applying the EMT simulations to power system analysis is satisfying both adequate simulation accuracy and acceptable computation time.

Linear interpolation methods [4]–[11] and variable/multiple time-step simulations [12]–[14] are typical methods for the SW model to simulate the dynamics of inverters accurately with a relatively large simulation time step. However, the linear interpolation methods require multiple interpolation processes if the system includes multiple inverters. The variable/multiple time-step simulations require a re-formulation of the admittance matrix each time the time step changes. These may increase a computational burden when simulating a large-scale power system with multiple inverters. The averaging method [15] was extended for the modeling of grid-connected inverters so as to achieve fast EMT simulations [16]–[19], which is called a circuit average model. Although the model is able to operate with a large time-step (as large as the switching cycle), it cannot reproduce the harmonics produced by switching operations. This is because the model is based on averaged values over one switching cycle.

The time average method (TAM) [20], [21] was originally developed for real-time simulations in order to reproduce the behavior of inverters including harmonics with a large simulation time step. The method represents each leg of an inverter by voltage sources which apply the PWM voltage waveform to the ac side. At an instance of switching, the voltage is modified by interpolation to reduce the error in