# An open-source parallel EMT simulation framework
Min Xiong a, b, Bin Wang c, Deepthi Vaidhynathan a, Jonathan Maack a, Matthew J. Reynolds a, Andy Hoke a, Kai Sun b, Deepak Ramasubramanian d, Vishal Verma d, Jin Tan a, *
a National Renewable Energy Laboratory, Golden, CO, 80401, USA
b University of Tennessee, Knoxville, TN, 37996, USA
c University of Texas at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, 78249, USA
d Electric Power Research Institute, Knoxville, TN, 37932, USA
* Corresponding author. E-mail address: jin.tan@nrel.gov (J. Tan).

**Keywords:** EMT, Electromagnetic transient simulation, Inverter-based resource, ParaEMT, Parallel computation, Power system dynamics

**Abstract:** As the integration level of inverter-based resources (IBRs) increases, ensuring the reliable operation of the bulk power systems requires the use of electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation tools to identify and mitigate system-wide stability risks. Conducting EMT studies for large-scale, IBR-rich grids, however, is challenging due to the inherent computational bottleneck caused by the underlying high-fidelity models and required small time steps. This paper introduces ParaEMT: an open-source, generic EMT simulation framework designed to accelerate simulations by leveraging advanced parallel computational technologies, such as high-performance computers. This paper presents a comprehensive exposition of ParaEMT, covering its modeling library, simulation strategy, framework structure, operational procedures, and auxiliary features, alongside its extensible parallel computational architecture. Notably, ParaEMT is a publicly accessible and modularized framework written in Python, thereby facilitating future development and the integration of new models and algorithms. The accuracy and efficiency of ParaEMT are demonstrated by rigorous validations via multiple case studies.

## 1. Introduction
With the increasing integration of inverter-based resources (IBRs) toward a 100% renewable energy future, the induced fast dynamics, such as sub/super synchronous resonances, have emerged as significant threats to the reliability and stability of power systems [1–6]. To tackle this challenge, power system electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation stands out as a powerful tool due to its capability to accurately capture intricate system-wide dynamics spanning a wide frequency range, e.g., from DC to hundreds of hertz, owing to its detailed system and IBR modeling. Therefore, EMT simulation is playing a progressively more pivotal role in crucial aspects for renewable integration investigations in modern power grids, such as control design, stability analysis, and protection coordination [5–8].

Nevertheless, small time steps, typically 50–100 μs, are needed for the numerical accuracy and stability of EMT simulations, resulting in substantial computational overhead, particularly on large-scale systems [9]. Consequently, the demand to accelerate EMT simulations has garnered significance for facilitating efficient dynamic security assessments of large-scale, IBR-rich power grids [10,11].

At present, researchers and practitioners in the field heavily rely on commercial, offline EMT simulation tools, such as PSCAD and EMTP-RV, which are typically well-tested and computationally efficient. Those tools, however, are not flexible for users to experiment with new technical approaches [12,13] or integrate innovative algorithms [9,14,15] by modifying the source code.

This reasoning motivates the development of an open-source EMT simulation framework capable of parallel computation. This framework caters to the needs of both industrial and academic entities engaged in power systems development and research. Additionally, it aims to provide a transparent platform for students to acquire hands-on experience with fundamental EMT simulation techniques. In pursuit of this objective, the authors have successfully developed a Python-based EMT simulation framework, named “ParaEMT,” to serve as a flexible and extensible platform for both educational and research purposes.

During the past decade, Python, a dynamic and versatile programming language, has gained immense popularity in various fields, such as machine learning and data science [16,17]. As a high-level interpreted language, Python offers a multitude of advantages: it is easy to code and read; it is free and open source; and it has a comprehensive standard library, strong community support, platform independence, and more [18]. These attributes make Python particularly well-suited for developing open-source tools with rapid prototyping. For example, a Python-based power system phasor domain simulator, ANDES [19], has amassed an impressive 399,000 downloads. Hence, the authors chose Python as the language for the EMT simulation framework ParaEMT in this work.

Till now, there have been several previous attempts at developing open-source simulators considering EMT dynamics, such as the DPsim in [20] based on the dynamic phasor approach, the developing PyTHTA EMT circuit program [21], and the MSEMT developed in Modelica environment constraints in exploiting the potential of HPCs (which typically have a Linux system) or GPUs to accelerate the simulation from user end, unless vendor support is provided to deploy it in the Linux system or restructure the CPU code to be compatible with GPU execution mode [33]. Conversely, commercial software, like PSCAD, has a well-written user’s manual and help documentation, well-developed GUIs, excellent help-desk support, extensive device libraries, and advanced functions, such as switching interpolation. ParaEMT is still under continuous development and currently lacks these features.

## 3. Models and algorithms utilized in ParaEMT