## Analytical study of the frequency-dependent earth conduction effects on underground power cables
Theoﬁlos A. Papadopoulos, Andreas I. Chrysochos, Grigoris K. Papagiannis
Power Systems Laboratory, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, P.O. Box 486, GR-54124 Thessaloniki, Greece
E-mail: grigoris@eng.auth.gr

**Abstract:** In electromagnetic transient analysis, one major issue is the inﬂuence of the imperfect earth on the propagation characteristics of transmission line conductors. Extensive research has been published for overhead lines, whereas the corresponding literature for underground cables is signiﬁcantly less. Recently, new expressions for the calculation of the ground impedance and admittance have been proposed for the homogeneous and the stratiﬁed earth case. However, most transient simulation programs still use approximate earth representations. Scope of this study is to compare the proposed formulation with the corresponding approximations, in order to introduce a frequency limit for the use of the approximate earth models, as well as criteria that dictate the use of a stratiﬁed earth model. The resulting propagation characteristics are used in transient calculations, in order to validate the effect of the differences by the various approaches and the need to include a more accurate model in the simulation of underground cable transients.

## 1 Introduction
The accurate representation of the imperfect earth in the calculation of the electrical parameters of power system conductors is a topic covering almost a century of research effort. Conductors in power systems may be a part of overhead transmission lines (OHTLs) or underground cable systems.

For OHTLs many papers can be found in the literature, one of the most known is the original work of Carson [1] representing the inﬂuence of the imperfect homogeneous earth on series impedances of conductors at lower frequencies, using proper correction terms. This approach was improved later by Sunde [2], including earth permittivity in the series impedances and by Wise [3] introducing admittance earth correction terms, in order to calculate accurately the propagation characteristics of OHTLs at higher frequencies [4]. The validity of the approximate Carson’s model and the need of a generalised model, such as that proposed in [3, 4], has been investigated in [5], utilising Semlyen’s criteria [6]. The above-mentioned semi-inﬁnite homogeneous earth models have also been extended to the stratiﬁed earth case [7, 8]. In [9], the inﬂuence of earth stratiﬁcation on wave propagation is examined thoroughly, using the earth impedance of [7]. Furthermore, signiﬁcant differences from the homogeneous earth assumption are observed, showing the necessity of stratiﬁed earth models in the calculation of the propagation characteristics of transmission lines (TL).

Based on the same assumptions as Carson, Pollaczek [10] derived ground earth correction expressions for underground cables. Similarly, Sunde [2] included earth permittivity in the original Pollaczek’s formula as a contribution to a more accurate formulation at higher frequencies. A decade later, Vance [11] proposed a simpliﬁed expression for the ground admittance of a single conductor cable. Then, after two decades of almost no research activity on the topic, scientiﬁc interest was increased again, because of the spreading use of underground power cables.

In recent papers [12, 13], an extensive comparison is presented on the different homogeneous earth impedance formulas. Also in [12, 13], Vance’s ground admittance formula is adopted and its inﬂuence on the transient responses of underground cables is investigated. In [14], proper earth impedance formulas for the two-layer earth topology are derived, but with limited validity in the kHz frequency range. At the same time, more accurate earth models for the homogeneous and the two-layer earth case have been proposed in [15, 16], respectively. A main advantage of the new models is that they are both suitable for multiconductor cable arrangements, utilising the generalised methodology of [17]. Furthermore, earth conduction effects are calculated accurately for a wide-frequency range, since ground admittances are also considered. A proper propagation term is also included in the formulation of the ground impedance [18, 19]. The signiﬁcance of these two terms on the accurate calculation of underground cable propagation characteristics has also been identiﬁed in [20, 21]. However, most transient simulation packages, such as alternative transients program/ electromagnetic transients program (ATP/EMTP) [22], still use the approximate model of [10] for the calculation of electromagnetic (EM) transient responses, leading to results, which can be inaccurate in cases of high-frequency transients.

Scope of this paper is to compare the proposed formulation for the homogeneous and the stratiﬁed earth case with the respective approximate models. Differences are analysed and according to the frequency-dependent behaviour of the earth, a frequency-limit criterion is introduced, above which the proposed formulation should be used. The investigation also includes the inﬂuence of earth stratiﬁcation, marking its signiﬁcance in cases where the penetration depth of the EM ﬁeld extends in both earth layers. The results are used for slow and fast transient response calculations in a single conductor arrangement.

## 2 System under study
† $Z'_{\text{ins}}$ and $Y'_{\text{ins}}$ are because of the magnetic and electric ﬁeld in the insulation, respectively, calculated using the corresponding well–known formulas [17].
† $Z'_g$ and $Y'_g$ are the ground impedance and admittance of the cable, respectively, representing the inﬂuence of the imperfect earth. The pul ground impedance and admittance expressions for the two–layer earth topology have the form of (3) and (4) [16].

pul self-ground impedance:
$$ \int_{0}^{+\infty} j\omega\mu_1 $$