# Analysis of low frequency interactions of DFIG wind turbine systems in series compensated grids
Aramis S. Trevisan a,b,*, Martin Fecteau c, Ângelo Mendonça b, Richard Gagnon d, Jean Mahseredjian a
a Polytechnique Montreal, Montréal (Québec), Canada
b Wobben Research and Development GmbH (ENERCON R&D), Aurich, Germany
c Hydro-Québec, Montréal (Québec), Canada
d Hydro-Québec Research Institute (IREQ), Varennes (Québec), Canada
* Corresponding author. Fax: +49 4941 9187-1009
E-mail address: aramis.schwanka.trevisan@enercon.de (A.S. Trevisan).

## ABSTRACT
Recent field events and subsequent studies have indicated that doubly-fed induction generator (DFIG) based wind farms might be susceptible to adverse interactions with series compensated systems. This paper focuses on the analysis of the interaction phenomenon. A new benchmark network is proposed to address the investigation of low frequency oscillations between wind generation and series compensated systems based on realistic system parameters. Nonlinear components and detailed representation of wind turbines are taken into account. An analytical model for a generic DFIG based wind farm is developed considering all inner and outer loops as well as its mechanical parts. Participation factor analysis is applied to the model to identify states most contributing to the critical modes and to address suitable mitigation. Sensitivity analysis is used to support redesign of control parameters. Investigations indicate that resonance can be avoided with proper control tuning. Finally, the capabilities of a screening technique for SSR risk assessment suitable for early project stages are also investigated and its results compared to the modal analysis. All conclusions are verified with detailed electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulations.

## 1. Introduction
In the last years power systems have experiencing fast and drastic changes. Modern energy market structures are pushing power systems to be operated in an economical optimal sense, in a constant attempt of maximizing the use of system's assets. Moreover, rights of way for new transmission lines as a system expansion and strengthening measure are increasingly difficult to obtain. As a consequence, there is an increasing interest for solutions capable of improving system use as well as techniques to support system stability assessment under these expected stressed conditions.

Fixed series compensation has been one of the approaches successfully applied to increase system stability margins through improving active power transfer capabilities of transmission lines. On the other hand, series compensation has also been involved in severe interaction events. In the 70’s, a turbine-generator of the Mohave power plant, in the US, interacted with the capacitances of a series compensated transmission line resulting in serious material damages [1]. In 2009, an incident involving wind turbines in Texas, US, called attention for similar interaction risks involving connection of wind generation in series compensated systems [2,3]. More recently, similar events have also been reported in China for different types of wind turbines [4,5].

These recent events involving modern wind turbines yielded the need for a substantial revision of existing assessment methods involving low frequency interactions, which are often categorized as sub-synchronous resonance (SSR), subsynchronous torsional interaction (SSTI) or, more generally, subsynchronous oscillations (SSO). This is mostly due to the complexity added by power electronics and their controls. Moreover, recent dedicated analysis of the phenomena ([2-8]) identified a new category of interaction referring to it as sub-synchronous control interaction (SSCI). Since then, considerable efforts have been made to improve the assessment and provide mitigation for SSO involving doubly-fed induction generator (DFIG) wind turbines [7-12]. Similar work was also conducted for type-IV wind turbines, however recent publications indicated that these are less prone to interact with series compensation [13-15].

The development of an analytical state-space representation has been pointed out for a long period as a powerful technique for power system analysis and dynamic stability studies [16]. However, its requirement on formal development of full-order state-space representation in conjunction with the complex structures and inverter-based devices of modern power systems easily become resource-intensive [17-19]. Due to this fact, several analytical investigations involving inverter-based units with complex structures (such as DFIG systems) and series compensation make use of certain simplifications and/or neglect some control loops and mechanical system representations [18,20,21,22].

Alternative methods try to detect unstable operating conditions by extracting frequency dependent characteristics for converter and grid without the need for analytical development [7,8,23-25]. These methods, however, do not provide insight into system states, modes and their damping characteristics, which are usually required to support mitigation studies and redesign of controllers to reduce interaction risks. Additionally, the predictions of such methods have not yet been compared to those resulting from modal analysis performed on detailed and realistic system representations.

This paper contributes to fill this gap by providing a comparison of modal analysis results conducted for a case involving a DFIG based wind farm connected to a series compensated grid to those obtained by screening techniques based on black-box models and compare its performance to the modal analysis. Conclusions are drawn in Section VIII.

## 2. Benchmark for Interaction Studies Between Wind Turbines and Series Compensated Grid
Due to the radial electrical system structure present in the Mohave [1] and in the Texas events ([2,3]), radial system structures are believed to be the most critical for SSR and SSCI phenomena. This has been again verified in the investigations presented in [28].

The proposed system is based on a wind integration project that Hydro-Québ