Analyses of the modifications in the π circuits for inclusion of frequency influence in transmission line representation
L. S. Lessa, Student Member, IEEE, A. J. Prado, Member, IEEE, M. L. Bonelli, Non-member, S. Kurokawa, Non-member, J. Pissolato Filho, Member, IEEE, L. F. Bovolato, Non-member

**Abstract**—In this article, it is represented by state variables phase a transmission line which parameters are considered frequency independently and frequency dependent. It is analyzed what is the reasonable number of π circuits and the number of blocks composed by parallel resistor and inductor in parallel for reduction of numerical oscillations. It is simulated the numerical routine with and without the effect of frequency in the longitudinal parameters. Initially, it is used state variables and π circuits representing the transmission line composing a linear system which is solved by numerical routines based on the trapezoidal rule. The effect of frequency on the line is synthesized by resistors and inductors in parallel and this representation is analyzed in details. It is described transmission lines and the frequency influence in these lines through the state variables.

**Index Terms**— Electromagnetic transient, EMTP, mathematical model, simulation, transmission lines, π circuit, numeric method, wave traveling.

This work is supported by FAPESP (The State of São Paulo Research Foundation).
Leonardo da Silva Lessa (nardolessa@yahoo.com.br), Afonso José do Prado (afonsojp@uol.com.br), Marco Leandro Bonelli (mlbonelli@gmail.com), Sérgio Kurokawa (kurokawa@dee.feis.unesp.br) and Luiz Fernando Bovolato (bovolato@dee.feis.unesp.br) are with the Department of Electrical Engineering at FEIS/UNESP – The University of São Paulo State, Brazil. José Pissolato Filho (pisso@dsce.fee.unicamp.br) is with the Department of Electrical Engineering, DSCE/UNICAMP – The State University of Campinas, Brazil.

## I. INTRODUCTION
FOR representation the transmission lines and electric power systems, there are several models that are used, for example, state variables, differential equations. Then, these models are included in routines and used in numerical simulations of electromagnetic transients. Based on these models, simulation programs were created. The main type of these programs is the EMTP ones (Electromagnetic Transient Programs) [1, 2] For undergraduate students who are beginning to develop works in this area, it becomes very complicated to use this type of program [3, 4] when it is considered skin effect, ground effect and frequency influence. It is involve models and numerical routines that are very complex. For the study of these students, this research initiation can be based on basic concepts and simple models of transmission lines for transient simulations [5]. In this paper, it is used the representation of transmission lines as a single phase circuit modeled by π circuits [6, 7], using state variables model. The used numeric routine combines the method of characteristics with the trapezoidal integration method, resulting in a simplified algorithm, which facilitates the initiation of undergraduate students, being capable for simulating electromagnetic transients in networks and obtaining results with satisfactory precision and accuracy. The state equations, which are the voltages and currents along the line, are analyzed numerically using mathematical matricial software (MatLabTM) because this software type allows extending the limits imposed by the EMTP-type programs for the number of π circuits. The trapezoidal rule and method of characteristics have been applied to the EMTP-type programs. So, the proposed routine is based on the concepts of this type program. The main goal of this routine is to use these concepts in mathematical softwares by undergraduate students. Some authors have compared the modified π circuits to the other frequency dependent transmissions line models [8-14], obtaining good approximations with the proposed numeric routine, In case of this paper, it is investigated the saturation limits of the number of π circuits and the number of RL parallel blocks.

## II. MATHEMATICAL MODEL
The state equations can be described by a linear system as:
$$\dot{x} = [A]x + [B]u \quad (1)$$
where: $x$ is the vector of state variables, $u$ is input vector, $A$ and $B$ are system matrices.

The equation (1) using the method of Heun that is also known as trapezoidal rule. It is a widely used numerical procedure for solving differential equations and linear systems [15, 16]. Described as trapezoidal rule of integration for discrete parameters, this methodology consists of an improved form of the method of tangent or Euler's method that generally applied to solve differential equations, avoiding difficulties in the analytical solutions.

The trapezoidal integration applied to solve equation (1) is given by the following equation:
$$x[k + 1] - x[k] = \frac{T}{2} \left( A x[k + 1] + B u[k + 1] + A x[k] + B u[k] \right) \quad (2)$$
Solving the state equation (2), where $T$ is the integration step, it is rearranged as:
$$x[k + 1] = x[k] + \frac{T}{2} \left( A x[k + 1] + B u[k + 1] + A x[k] + B u[k] \right) \quad (3)$$
Solving the equation (3), it c