## Analysis of Frequency-Dependent Network Equivalents in Dynamic Harmonic Domain
Ehsan Karami$^{a,*}$, Ehsan Hajipour$^{a}$, Mehdi Vakilian$^{a}$, Kumars Rouzbehi$^{b}$
$^{a}$ Center of Excellence in Power System Management and Control, Department of Electrical Engineering, Sharif University of Technology, Tehran, Iran
$^{b}$ Department of Electrical Engineering, University of Sevilla, Sevilla, Spain

### Abstract
Rational function-based models have proved to be very efficient for accurate frequency-dependent modeling of power system components. These models are able to characterize the components terminal behaviours (analysing the admittance matrix) for nodal analysis. This provides a fast convergence and inherent stability to the solution routine of the model. This work presents a general framework for interfacing the dynamic phasor method to the rational models. That would be promising for the electromagnetic transient analysis (under harmonic distortion), in the frequency domain. Therefore, Y-element rational pole-residue models (employing the vector fitting method) are developed. Moreover, the pole-residue model is converted into the state-space representation. Next, the dynamic harmonic approach (in the frequency domain) is employed for harmonic analysis. It is shown that the order of state-space system can become a major concern for frequency-dependent networks analysis. Therefore, to generate a reduced-order model, the balanced realization theory is applied. Moreover, (for the sake of simplicity and efficiency) the trapezoidal integration rule is employed to discretise the state-space equations. For validation of the modelling, it is applied on three test case studies and results of these studies are compared with their time-domain analysis results.

## 1. Introduction
Network equivalents are widely used in the simulation of power systems to reduce the unnecessary complex network of a part of those systems. These network equivalents can be employed for analyzing the terminal-based behavior of the network. In order to define the relationships between the terminals’ voltages and currents, in Electromagnetic Transients Programs (EMTPs), typically a Y-matrix (admittance matrix) is formed [1]. Since the rational models can characterize the frequency-dependent behavior of linear components, the rational model of Y-matrix can be used in EMTPs to provide a frequency-dependent nodal analysis of the network equivalents [2, 3].

Review of the literatures shows that different techniques are available for rational function approximation which precisely reproduce the ports’ features over the desired frequency band, and satisfy the physical requirements of stability, causality, symmetry, and passivity [4–9]. Among these techniques, the vector fitting (VF) method is well-known to be very effective in reproducing the frequency domain responses with resonance peaks [8]. In [9], a modified VF method has been introduced by replacing the high-frequency asymptotic constraint of the scaling function with a more relaxed condition. This replacement significantly reduces the dependence of the VF method on the initial poles selection. In [10], a Prony-based method has been proposed to identify the order of the rational model reproduced by the VF method in frequency-dependent network equivalents.

One of the widely used (frequency domain based) approaches is the dynamic phasor (DP) approach. This approach is used for modeling the power system components such as electrical machines [11], simulation of inrush dynamics [12], power system dynamics [13], Flexible AC Transmission Systems [14], sub-synchronous resonance [15], unbalanced distribution systems [16], and HVDC systems [17]. In [18], a shifted frequency-based analysis using DP variables instead of instantaneous time variables has been proposed. In [19], the application of DP concept has been shown in two main areas: i) DP modeling for frequency varying condition, ii) DP modeling of multi-frequency in multi-generator systems. The interface model for EMT and transient stability hybrid simulations has been put forward in [20].

The Dynamic Harmonic Domain (DHD) method is an extended version of DP and can be efficiently used to perform dynamic analysis of harmonic components during the transient periods. The DHD methodology has been successfully used to investigate the dynamic harmonic response of power transformers, synchronous machines, and also different FACTS devices [21–23]. A modified harmonic domain formulation has been introduced in [24] to include interharmonics. In [25], an extended harmonic domain model of a wind turbine generator system has been represented. Reference [26] discusses the main issue about the implementation of DHD models. This paper shows that spurious oscillations of individual harmonics can appear when there is a step-change in input variables or the circuit parameters. In [27], a decomposed framework has been introduced to solve different harmonic sources separately. An approach for reduction of a non-linear system in both harmonics and states has been presented in [28], which reduces

where, $\tau \in [t, t + T)$, $X_h(t)$ is a time-varying complex number, and $\omega$ is the angular frequency equal to $2\pi /T$. Equation (1) can be rewritten in the matrix form as follows:

$$x(\tau) = E(\tau) X(t) \tag{2}$$

where,
$$X(t) = \begin{bmatrix} \cdots & X_{-2}(t) & X_{-1}(t) & X_0(t) & X_1(t) & X_2(t) & \cdots \end{bmatrix}^T$$

$$E(\tau) = \begin{bmatrix} \cdots & e^{-j2\omega\tau} & e^{-j\omega\tau} & 1 & e^{j\omega\tau} & e^{j2\omega\tau} & \cdots \end{bmatrix}$$