# Application of Electromagnetic Transient-Transient Stability Hybrid Simulation to FIDVR Study
**Qiuhua Huang**, Student Member, IEEE, and **Vijay Vittal**, Fellow, IEEE

## Abstract
This paper deals with the development of a new electromagnetic transient (EMT)-transient stability (TS) hybrid simulation platform and its application to a detailed fault-induced delayed voltage recovery (FIDVR) study on the WECC system. A new EMT-TS hybrid simulation platform, which integrates PSCAD/EMTDC and the open source power system simulation software InterPSS has been developed. A combined interaction protocol with an automatic protocol switching control scheme is proposed. A multi-port three-phase Thévenin equivalent is developed for representing an external network in an EMT simulator. Correspondingly, the external network is represented in three-sequence, and a three-sequence TS simulation algorithm is developed. These techniques allow simulation of unsymmetrical faults within the internal network without the constraint of phase balance at the boundary. The effectiveness of the proposed techniques is first tested on the IEEE 9-bus system. Subsequently, the proposed hybrid simulation approach is applied to a detailed FIDVR study on a large WECC system. The study shows that a normally cleared single-line-to-ground (SLG) fault in the transmission system could lead to an FIDVR event, with compressor motors of the air conditioning units on the faulted phases stalling first, followed by a propagation of motor stalling to the unfaulted phase. Moreover, similar events are observed in simulations with a wide range of load compositions. Lastly, the effect of the point-on-wave (POW) at which a fault is applied on the occurrence of an FIVDR event is also analyzed.

## Index Terms
Electromagnetic transient, fault induced delayed voltage recovery, hybrid simulation, interaction protocol, multi-port three-phase Thévenin equivalent, transient stability.

## I. INTRODUCTION
With the proliferation of converter based power electronic devices and small single-phase induction motors in power systems, the interaction of such fast responding elements with the power systems over time spans as long as 20 seconds has become a subject of significant interest [1], [2]. The fault-induced delayed voltage recovery (FIDVR) phenomenon [3]–[5] falls into this category of events. Detailed modeling and simulation of single-phase compressor motors of air conditioners (A/Cs) and the distribution network is critical for the accuracy of FIDVR simulation results, especially under asymmetric fault conditions [5]–[7]. However, positive sequence transient stability (TS) simulators are unable to accurately model the A/C response to unbalanced faults. Simulation of large power systems with associated detailed modeling of large numbers of fast responding elements is too computationally burdensome for existing electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulators. While the scale of the system can be reduced by modeling a large portion of the system with a Norton or Thévenin equivalent, the drawback is that the nonlinear, dynamic response of the equivalenced portion of the system cannot be represented in the EMT simulation.

The EMT-TS hybrid simulation approach has been found to be practically feasible to meet such a simulation demand [1], [2], [8]–[15]. Alternative methods include dynamic phasor [16] and frequency adaptive [17] modeling approaches. The EMT-TS hybrid simulation approach is adopted in this paper, as this approach allows the flexible integration of the existing and proven EMT and TS simulators without “reinventing the wheel”. The portion of the system with a high penetration of A/C loads, referred to as the internal network, is modeled in an EMT simulator, whereas the rest of the system is regarded as the external network and represented by a phasor domain model.

Previous research on EMT-TS hybrid simulation mainly focused on interfacing techniques [11], including network equivalents on both sides [1], [12], [18] and interaction protocols [9], [13], [18]–[20] as well as the development of hybrid simulation programs [1], [2], [10], [14]- [15]. The external network equivalents used in previous research, with the exception of [12], were developed based on positive-sequence network models. Consequently, if the resulting network equivalents were used in study cases with unbalanced conditions, the internal network would have to be extended substantially in the cases with a mesh network topology, in order to comply with the three-phase balanced assumption, which would undermine the merits of hybrid simulation. For the interaction protocol, either the serial or the parallel protocol was used in previous research. The serial protocol has been found to be a limiting factor of simulation speed, whereas the parallel protocol could lead to accuracy issues. Moreover, these programs, with the exception of [2] and [10] are designed to run all simulations on only one computer, thus they are potentially limited by the local computing resources. References [2] and [10], however, did not provide implementation details of the commercial solution.

The i

---
*Manuscript received October 24, 2014; revised March 23, 2015 and July 14, 2015; accepted September 15, 2015. Date of publication September 28, 2015; date of current version May 02, 2016. This work was supported by the National Science Foundation under Grant EEC-9908690 at the Power System Engineering Research Center. Paper no. TPWRS-01475-2014.*

*The authors are with the Department of Electrical, Computer and Energy Engineering, Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ 85281 USA (e-mail: qhuang24@asu.edu; vijay.vittal@asu.edu).*

*Color versions of one or more of the figures in this paper are available online.*