# Application of Frequency-Partitioning Fitting to the Phase-Domain Frequency-Dependent Modeling of Overhead Transmission Lines
**Taku Noda**, Senior Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—This paper shows that a previously proposed linear-system identification method based on frequency partitioning and adaptive weighting can be successfully applied to the phase-domain frequency-dependent modeling of overhead transmission lines for electromagnetic transient simulations. As the framework of the phase-domain modeling, the universal line model is used, and the frequency responses of the characteristic admittance and propagation function matrices are realized by linear equivalents obtained by the identification method mentioned before, instead of the well-known Vector Fitting method. In this paper, numerical techniques to enhance the identification method for this phase-domain line modeling application are also presented. For validation, the proposed approach is applied to modeling an existing 500-kV double-circuit transmission line. The effectiveness of the numerical techniques for enhancements are shown through the modeling process, and transient waveforms obtained by the proposed approach are compared with those by the rigorous Laplace transform method and with a field-test result.

**Index Terms**—Electromagnetic transient analysis, frequency response, identification, power system modeling, power system simulation, power transmission lines.

*The author is with the Electric Power Engineering Research Laboratory, Central Research Institute of Electric Power Industry, Kanagawa 240-0196, Japan (e-mail: takunoda@ieee.org).*

## I. INTRODUCTION

MODERN power systems use power-electronics devices for dc transmission, back-to-back system interconnection, system stabilization, and other purposes. Since waveform-level calculations are essential to consider switching in power-electronics devices, studies of power systems, including power-electronics devices, are now often carried out by electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulations. This trend gives further importance to EMT simulations in addition to studies of conventional phenomena, such as overvoltages, inrush currents, and abnormal oscillations.

Accurate modeling of transmission lines is a key to accurate EMT simulations. When a wide range of frequencies is of interest in an EMT simulation, the frequency dependence of a transmission line, that is, the skin effects of wires and ground soil has to be represented accurately. A variety of line models has been proposed to represent the frequency dependence. Early models are based on the theory of natural modes of propagation [1], [2] for computational efficiency. In those modal-domain models [3]–[7], the frequency dependence of characteristic admittances and propagation functions is represented in the modal domain, and voltages and currents are transformed back and forth between the phase and the modal domain at every time step using transformation matrices. To carry out this phase and modal transformation in the time domain, transformation matrices are approximated by real and constant matrices. Thus, the modal-domain models are not accurate enough for modeling transmission lines whose transformation matrices exhibit heavy frequency dependence. To solve this problem, phase-domain models have been proposed [8]–[12]. The calculations of the phase-domain models are formulated fully in the phase domain, and the modal transformation itself is avoided. In the phase domain, characteristic admittance and propagation function are treated as matrices, whose frequency dependence is realized by matrix-vector convolutions in time-domain EMT simulations. For the matrix-vector convolutions, the frequency responses of the two matrices mentioned before have to be represented by, in other words, fitted with matrix partial fraction expansions (MPFEs) [13, App. A]. The fitting of the characteristic-admittance matrix is straightforward, and the vector-fitting (VF) method [14] is directly used to obtain its MPFE representation. The fitting of the propagation-function matrix, on the other hand, is not straightforward. Since its time-domain response includes step-wise changes due to modal traveling-time differences, the form of MPFE is modified in order to explicitly include time-delay terms. This methodology is called the universal line model (ULM) [15]. The idea of explicitly including time-delay terms was originally introduced in a -domain modeling method [10]. In [15], the ULM is combined with the VF method to identify the modified MPFE. As an alternative to the VF method, the author has proposed an MPFE identification method based on frequency partitioning and adaptive weighting [16], [17]. Since the method is mainly characterized by frequency partitioning, it is called the frequency-partitioning fitting (FpF) method in this paper. So far, the method has been applied to network equivalent modeling.

This paper shows that the FpF method can be successfully applied to the phase-domain frequency-dependent modeling of overhead transmission lines. For the fitting of a characteristic-admittance matrix, the FpF method is directly used to obtain its MPFE representation. In the same way as the VF method, the ULM is combined with the FpF method for the fitting of a propagation-function matrix. Nu