Received June 8, 2020, accepted August 11, 2020, date of publication August 20, 2020, date of current version September 1, 2020.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/ACCESS.2020.3018323

Application of Duality-Based Equivalent Circuits for Modeling Multilimb Transformers Using Alternative Input Parameters

MOHAMMAD SHAFIEIPOUR 1, (Member, IEEE), WALDEMAR ZIOMEK 2, (Senior Member, IEEE), ROHITHA P. JAYASINGHE 1, (Member, IEEE), JUAN CARLOS GARCIA ALONSO 1, AND ANIRUDDHA M. GOLE 3, (Life Fellow, IEEE)
1 Manitoba Hydro International Ltd., Winnipeg, MB R3P 1A3, Canada
2 PTI Transformers LP, Winnipeg, MB R3T 0L7, Canada
3 Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB R3T 2N2, Canada

Corresponding author: Mohammad Shafieipour (mohammad.shafieipour@sestech.com)

**ABSTRACT** The principle of duality is applied for electromagnetic transient (EMT) modeling of industry scale (i.e. 50, 390 MVA) multilimb transformers. While saturation, hysteresis, deep-saturation, and remanent flux are accounted for, the need for transformer internal design information such as core dimension or material is eliminated. This is achieved by formulating the equivalent circuits with an alternative set of parameters that are either provided by the manufacturer or can be determined using conventional techniques. Open-circuit tests confirm that the models produce accurate excitation currents at different saturation levels when compared with measurement results. Furthermore, the models facilitate correct short-circuit condition with support for arbitrary number of windings. Upon validating the models, inrush current is simulated and the worst-case scenario is determined due to potential remanent flux values. The findings agree with an established EMT simulation model as well as manufacturer analytical approximations. Simulated hysteresis loops are also investigated.

**INDEX TERMS** Principle of duality, 3-limb and 5-limb transformer models, miltilimb multiwinding transformers, inrush current, remanent flux, hysteresis loop, electromagnetic transient.

## I. INTRODUCTION
In recent years, the importance of sustainable development has urged the electric power generation industry to rapidly expand investments in environmental-friendly forms of generating electric power such as solar and wind power technologies. Therefore, interest have grown in using power system equipment that facilitates generation, transmission and distribution of electric power resulted from renewable energy. This includes power electronics, solar photovoltaics, inverter transformers, etc. Moreover, grids which carry renewable energy typically consist of a combination of small- and medium-sized inverter-based generators such as solar panels and wind turbines as well as energy storage systems such as batteries and flywheels. As a result, the use of small- and medium-sized power system equipment has generally increased in recent years. One important example of such equipment are three-phase transformers which are constructed on a single multilimb core as it is economically and logistically more advantageous to build small- and medium-sized transformers on a single core. Such cores are typically 3-legged or 5-legged as depicted in Fig. 1. Consequently in recent years, there has been an increased demand for more accurate and numerically robust three- and five-limb transformer models for wide-band [1] and low-frequency [2] electromagnetic transient (EMT) analysis. Among the available techniques for the latter, the principle of duality has been shown to be accurate and numerically robust for modeling many transformer topologies including multilimb cores [3]–[9]. Such models require internal design information (e.g. core material, core dimensions, number of turns in the windings) or results from unconventional tests (i.e. with open terminals) in order to determine parameters of the magnetizing branches. These parameters are pertinent to open-circuit test condition and heavily influence saturation studies. This is a practical limitation as such information is seldom available. Furthermore, to the best of our knowledge, available multilimb transformer models are limited to 2- and 3-winding cases. This is perhaps due to the difficulties arising in the enforcement of zero-sequence leakage inductances for arbitrary number of windings. Although in this paper we do not provide a solution to this problem and neglect zero-sequence tests, we attempt to clarify this difficulty for future studies. It should be noted that while transformers do

**Figure 1.** Principle of duality directly applied on the iron core of (a) 3-limb and (b) 5-limb transformers.

### 1) IRON CORE
Different authors have proposed different approaches for modeling the iron core of multilimb transformers based on the principle of duality [3], [5]–[9]. Finer discretizations (i.e. using more non-linear inductors to represent the iron core) are believed to produce more accurate results. However, when forming duality-based transformer models in EMT-type programs, it is not only required to correctly repre