# Approximate Voltage-Behind-Reactance Induction Machine Model for Efficient Interface With EMTP Network Solution
**Liwei Wang**, Student Member, IEEE, and **Juri Jatskevich**, Senior Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—A so-called voltage-behind-reactance (VBR) induction machine model has recently been proposed for the Electro-Magnetic Transient Program (EMTP) solution as an advantageous alternative to the traditional $dq$ and phase-domain (PD) models. This paper focuses on achieving an efficient interface of the machine models with the EMTP network. It is shown first that a discretized PD model can be formulated to have a constant machine conductance submatrix, which is a very desirable numerical property that allows avoiding the re-factorization of the network conductance matrix at every time step. Furthermore, an approximate voltage-behind-reactance (AVBR) model is proposed where the rotor-speed-dependent coefficients are neglected, thus leading to a similar constant machine conductance submatrix and efficient interface. Case studies demonstrate that the new AVBR model represents a significant improvement in terms of numerical accuracy and efficiency over other established models used in EMTP.

**Index Terms**—Approximate voltage-behind-reactance model, constant conductance matrix, Electro-Magnetic Transient Program (EMTP), G matrix, induction machine, phase-domain model, voltage-behind-reactance model.

*Manuscript received November 05, 2008; revised June 30, 2009. First published November 24, 2009; current version published April 21, 2010. This work was supported in part by the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council (NSERC) of Canada under the Discovery Grant, and in part by the Educational Grant from British Columbia Transmission Corporation and BC Hydro. Paper no. TPWRS-00910-2008.*
*The authors are with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z4, Canada (e-mail: liweiw@ece.ubc.ca; jurij@ece.ubc.ca).*

## I. INTRODUCTION
Efficient and accurate machine models for the power system Electro-Magnetic Transient Program (EMTP) [1] have received extensive attention since the late 1970s. EMTP and its derivative programs are used extensively by engineers and researchers in industry and academia as powerful and standard simulation tools. Improving the numerical efficiency and accuracy of the induction machine models for EMTP-type solutions has been attractive for a long time and will potentially have a very significant impact, since these models and tools are widely used. Numerous machine models have been proposed and implemented in various software packages including MicroTran [2], ATP/EMTP [3], PSCAD/EMTDC [4], and EMTP-RV [5], where $dq$ models are typically used.

Since power system networks are often represented in physical phase coordinates, the interface between machine models and the external physical network-circuit imposes additional challenges. In MicroTran (Type-50) and ATP (Type 59), the $dq$ machine models are interfaced using the Thevenin equivalent circuit of the machine in $dq$ coordinates and the predicted machine electrical and mechanical variables [6]. The machine models in PSCAD/EMTDC are represented as three-phase Norton current sources, which are predicted according to the terminal voltages from the previous time step [7]. The main advantage of these methods is that they result in a constant machine conductance submatrix, and do not require re-factorization of the entire network conductance matrix at every time step. However, predicting relatively fast electrical variables introduces interfacing errors that significantly reduce the numerical accuracy of the model, and may potentially cause convergence problem [8]–[10]. In ATP, the Universal Machine (UM) models are used to represent various types of machines [11]. These machines are treated as nonlinear devices and are interfaced with the Thevenin equivalent of the external network in $dq$ coordinates. However, this interfacing method requires machines to be separated by transmission lines, or artificially inserted “stub-lines” to avoid solving a system of nonlinear equations [1]. A newer package, EMTP-RV, eliminates this constraint by allowing the Newton iterations to achieve the simultaneous solution of machine and network variables [12], [13]. However, iterative solution of the machine and network equations at every time step generally reduces the overall simulation efficiency.

In order to achieve a direct interface between the machine model and the external network, coupled-circuit phase-domain (PD) models have been proposed [14]–[16]. The direct interface of the PD model has definitely improved numerical accuracy and stability compared with the conventional model [8]–[10]. However, the existence of rotor-position-dependent mutual inductances increases the computational burden.

Recently, so-called voltage-behind-reactance (VBR) machine models have been proposed for the state-space approach [17], [18] and EMTP-type solutions [19], [20]. The VBR model formulation represents the stator circuit in $abc$ phase coordinates and the rotor subsystem in $dq$ arbitrary reference frame. This formulation incorporates the advantages of the PD model, in terms of its direct interface with the external network as well as its utilization of the numerically efficient model structure, since the rotor subsystem is modeled in $dq$ coordinates. It was shown in [20] that due to its improved accuracy, the VBR model