# Assessment of the accuracy of the modal-domain line models with real and frequency-independent transformation matrix for electromagnetic transient simulation in lines with underbuilt cables

Lucas A. Rezende $^a$, Naiara Duarte $^b$, Rafael Alipio $^{b, c, *}$, Alberto De Conti $^d$

$^a$ Graduate Program of Electrical Engineering (PPGEL), Federal Center of Technological Education of Minas Gerais (CEFET-MG), Belo Horizonte, Brazil  
$^b$ EMC Laboratory, Swiss Federal Inst. Of Technology (EPFL), Lausanne, Switzerland  
$^c$ Department of Electrical Engineering, Federal Center of Technological Education of Minas Gerais (CEFET-MG), Belo Horizonte, Brazil  
$^d$ Department of Electrical Engineering, Federal University of Minas Gerais (UFMG), Belo Horizonte, Brazil  

*Corresponding author. E-mail address: rafael.alipio@gmail.com (R. Alipio).*

**Keywords:** Transmission line modeling, Electromagnetic transients, Transmission lines with underbuilt wires, Modal-domain models, Phase-domain models

**Abstract:** This paper investigates the potential inaccuracies associated with using a modal-domain model featuring a real and frequency-independent transformation matrix in simulating electromagnetic transients on power overhead lines equipped with underbuilt wires. Three transmission line configurations are examined: one without underbuilt wires, one with a single underbuilt wire, and another with two underbuilt wires. Comparisons between the simulated voltages computed using the modal-domain approach and a more accurate phase-domain model as a reference reveal that the modal-domain approach leads to inaccuracies in the simulated voltages. These inaccuracies intensify with an increase in the number of underbuilt wires and the soil resistivity. Differences of up to approximately 24 % in the peak values of the simulated voltages were observed, considering the transmission line geometry analyzed in this study. Based on these findings, it is recommended that for simulating transients in overhead lines with installed underbuilt wires, phase-domain models, such as the Universal Line Model, should be employed.

## 1. Introduction

Lightning remains a significant concern in the operation of overhead transmission lines and is the primary cause of outages in transmission lines (TLs) with voltage levels up to 500 kV [1]. Typically, to maintain the outage rate of the TL within acceptable levels, power utilities implement standard methods for improving the lightning performance, such as reducing the tower-foot grounding resistance. In regions characterized by intense lightning activity and unfavorable soil resistivity conditions, special methods are often employed [2]. These methods aim to avoid the need for installing surge arresters in parallel with the line insulator strings, which can be an expensive solution. One such method is the use of underbuilt ground wires [3–5]. These wires are installed below the phase conductors on towers, particularly in regions with high-resistivity soils or in those experiencing unusually frequent flashovers. These underbuilt wires mitigate overvoltages across line insulators by diverting a portion of the lightning current to adjacent towers and by enhancing the coupling between the shield wires and the phase conductors.

In assessing the lightning performance of TLs, Electromagnetic Transients (EMT) programs are widely used. In most studies dealing with the lightning performance of transmission lines (e.g., [6–8]), the line is often modeled using Marti’s model, also known as fdLine model, which is a modal-domain model based on a real and frequency-independent matrix for converting from phase to modal domain quantities [9]. However, while this model yields accurate results for TLs with a low degree of conductor asymmetry, it can lead to inaccuracies when analyzing TLs with underbuilt wires. This is because underbuilt wires introduce asymmetry in the geometric arrangement of the line conductors, leading to a greater imbalance in the per-unit-length impedance and admittance matrices. Although there are models that overcome the limitations of the fdLine model, such as the Universal Line Model (ULM) [10], the fdLine model continues to be the most popular for analyzing line transients in EMT-type programs. This popularity is likely due to two main reasons. First, the fdLine model provides an accurate solution for transients on both single-circuit and double-circuit overhead transmission lines in most practical cases—excluding those with underbuilt wires [11]. Second, its numerical stability, which ensures stable simulations [12].

The main objective of this paper is to investigate the possible inaccuracies associated with the use of a modal-domain model with a real and frequency-independent transformation matrix in the simulation of electromagnetic transients on power overhead lines with the presence of underbuilt wires. This paper builds upon the work presented in [13] at the GROUND & 10th LPE 2023 Conference, expanding upon the previously presented results from two main perspectives.