# Average-Value Modeling of Line-Commutated AC–DC Converters With Unbalanced AC Network
**Seyyedmilad Ebrahimi**, Member, IEEE, **Navid Amiri**, Member, IEEE, and **Juri Jatskevich**, Fellow, IEEE

**Abstract**—AC–DC line-commutated converters (LCCs) are widely utilized in existing and emerging ac–dc power systems. Analysis of such systems under balanced and unbalanced conditions is often carried out using electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation programs. Therein, the detailed switching models of LCCs are often the computational bottlenecks for system-level studies. Recently, the parametric average-value models (PAVMs) have been developed to achieve fast and efficient simulations of switching converters. In this paper, the PAVM methodology is extended to consider operation of LCCs under unbalanced conditions in the ac network. This is done in the extended PAVM by formulating the ac-side harmonics in positive and negative sequences as well as the dc-side harmonics (i.e., ripples) with respect to the ac network imbalance. The new PAVM is validated experimentally and by simulations, and is demonstrated to be accurate in reconstructing the ac and dc waveforms under unbalanced conditions in the ac network. Meanwhile, the proposed PAVM is computationally much faster than its detailed switching model counterpart.

**Index Terms**—AC–DC converter, average-value model, line-commutated, parametric, simulations, unbalanced conditions.

Manuscript received February 11, 2021; revised April 14, 2021; accepted May 23, 2021. Date of publication May 26, 2021; date of current version November 23, 2021. This work was supported by the Natural Science and Engineering Research Council (NSERC) of Canada under the Collaborative Research and Development Grant. Paper no. TEC-00161-2021. (Corresponding author: Juri Jatskevich.)

The authors are with Electrical and Computer Engineering Department, The University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z4, Canada (e-mail: ebrahimi@ece.ubc.ca; navida@ece.ubc.ca; jurij@ece.ubc.ca).

Color versions of one or more figures in this article are available at https://doi.org/10.1109/TEC.2021.3084124.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TEC.2021.3084124

## I. INTRODUCTION
AC–DC power-electronic converters play an enabling role in the development of modern energy systems and their integration with conventional power systems. Therein, line-commutated rectifiers (LCRs) are often utilized due to their simplicity, reliability, high-power capability, high efficiency and low cost. Examples of LCRs applications include (but are not limited to) classic HVDC systems [1], distributed energy resources (DERs) [2], exciters of synchronous generators [3], vehicular [4], marine [5], and avionic power systems [6], induction furnace systems [7], etc. However, LCRs contribute to the harmonics in the system.

Reliable planning, design and development of such LCR-based systems require comprehensive studies and analyses of the system under normal and unbalanced/faulty conditions. This is due to the fact that in addition to the harmonics that result from the LCR operation, the imbalance of the system can also significantly influence the operation of power system equipment, e.g., protection relays, controllers, etc., [8]–[10]. The imbalance in the system may be a result of various phenomena, e.g., internal faults of LCR switches, asymmetric faults on and/or unequal impedances of the lines/cables, as well as unbalanced loads and/or sources, etc.

Such studies are conventionally done using electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation programs, e.g., PSCAD/EMTDC, EMTP-RV, MATLAB/Simulink [11], Simscape Electrical, PLECS [12], as well as real-time simulators such as Typhoon HIL, Opal-RT, RTDS, etc. In these programs, the detailed switching models of LCRs are commonly available as standard library components which provide high-fidelity and accurate results by computing all the discrete switching and commutations of all individual devices. Such models typically rely on accurate handling of discrete switching events, which is achieved using small time-steps, zero-crossing detection, interpolation [13]–[14], etc., which make these models computationally expensive. Detailed switching models may quickly become computational bottlenecks in systems with multiple converters and/or when the simulations have to be done many times for optimization of parameters and design of controllers [15]. At the same time, many EMT simulators have been pushing to expand their computational capabilities by permitting larger time-steps (up to hundreds of microseconds, at least for parts of their systems, e.g., super-step in RTDS [16]) and/or including the dynamic phasor-type average solution techniques with larger time-steps [17].

As an alternative to the detailed switching models, dynamic average-value models (AVMs) [3], [6], [17]–[30] have been developed for LCRs, wherein the individual discrete switching is neglected, and slower non-switching dynamics are captured by relating the ac- and dc-side variables through their average-value relationships. This makes the AVMs fast and efficient for system-level simulations. The AVMs may be classified as analytical (AAVMs) [3], [6], [17]–[21] and parametric (PAVMs) [22]–[30]. The PAVMs have appeared to be very promising for their high accuracy and subsequent automatic generation and realization in EMT simulators. Interested reader is referred to [27, Table I] for a list of state-of-the-art AAVMs and PAVMs with details on their features and limitations.

In [17]–[18], analytical dynamic phasor models have been developed in phasor-domain for LCC-HVDC converters under unbalanced system operation (i.e., asymmetrical faults and commutation failure). However, they have the general limitations of AAVMs, i.e., being applicable only to a single operating