# Average-Value Model for a Modular Multilevel Converter With Embedded Storage
**Nuwan Herath**, Student Member, IEEE, and **Shaahin Filizadeh**, Senior Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—This article proposes an average-value model for a modular multilevel converter with sub-module level battery energy storage. The developed model is a computationally efficient representative of the converter in system-level studies; it is also shown to be useful in analytical characterization of circulating currents and sub-module capacitor voltage ripple both with and without circulating current suppression control. The model is then used to investigate the sizing of converter components under different operating regimes. The accuracy of the developed model is verified against detailed EMT models as well as against experimental results on a converter prototype.

**Index Terms**—Average-value modeling, energy storage, modular multilevel converters.

## I. INTRODUCTION
Modular multilevel converters with embedded battery energy storage (MMC-ES) have attracted much attention as a means of integrating energy storage in an electrical grid [1]. Their dispersed nature enables control of individual battery currents, dynamic state-of-charge (SOC) balancing, better harmonic quality of ac voltage, and flexible power control [1]–[3]. MMC-ES is viewed as a three-port converter [1], [3], [4] to integrate battery storage to dc and ac grids from a single converter. This type of application is popular in shipboard systems where both ac and dc systems exist [5]. The converter has also been studied for fault-ride-through applications in wind turbines using integrated energy storage [6]. The MMC-ES has also been modified to include both photovoltaic panels and energy storage to mitigate the fluctuations of solar power plants [7]. Contemporary literature clearly shows that MMC-ES is a promising topology with many benefits.

Studies of complex converter topologies are primarily done using computer simulation programs such as electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulators. They help to understand the converter’s operation, control, and behavior during normal and abnormal events. Detailed implementation of the MMC-ES for EMT simulations with each element represented as a companion model [8] produces highly accurate results at the expense of a massive computational burden, given the large number of switching elements and passive components in the converter. To curtail computational complexity, detailed equivalent models (DEM) of both conventional and energy-storage MMCs have been developed [9], [10] that use Thevenin equivalents for the MMC multivalve. In these models, all information at the SM level are retained. However, both the conventional EMT and DEM models are numerical in nature and do not readily lend themselves to analytical studies such as controller tuning, small-signal analysis, investigation of circulating currents and capacitor voltage ripple, and component sizing. To address these shortcomings, averaged value models (AVM) of MMC topologies have been developed.

An AVM for the conventional MMC multivalve was developed in [11]. The same authors presented a more extensive study on the AVM in [12] with more simplifications for the MMC by representing the entire converter as a single black box. This approach loses the concept of the converter multivalve. AVMs for a category of MMC-ES topologies have been developed in [13] for both the multivalve and full converter levels. In this topology the energy storage unit is directly connected across the sub-module capacitor. For better utilization and greater controllability of the energy storage units, it is common practice to use an intermediate dc-dc converter. In [3] a VSC-level AVM is developed for the MMC-ES topology in Fig. 1; however, the model in [3] amalgamates the entire converter into controlled voltage and current sources without SM-level information.

This paper develops an explicit, computationally efficient, multivalve-level AVM for a MMC-ES with dc-dc converters in each sub-module. The developed AVM is used for EMT-type simulations, analytical studies of the converter for characterization of the circulating currents and average capacitor voltage ripple, and component sizing. Extensive simulation and experimental results are presented to assess and verify the accuracy of the AVM and the ensuing studies.

The paper continues in Section II with an overview of the MMC-ES converter and its controls. The AVM is developed in Section III. A detailed analysis of the circulating currents is given in Section IV. Section V presents model validation against EMT

*Manuscript received January 13, 2020; revised June 25, 2020; accepted August 2, 2020. Date of publication August 6, 2020; date of current version May 21, 2021. This work was supported in part by the University of Manitoba, and in part by the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada. (Corresponding author: Shaahin Filizadeh.)*

*The authors are with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB R3T 5V6, Canada.*