# Average-Value Modeling of Line-Commutated Inverter Systems With Commutation Failure
**Zeqi Hong**, Student Member, IEEE, **Seyyedmilad Ebrahimi**, Member, IEEE, **Yin Xu**, Senior Member, IEEE, **Juri Jatskevich**, Fellow, IEEE, and **Jinghan He**, Fellow, IEEE

**Abstract**—Line-commutated converters are extensively used as the interface between ac grids and classic HVDC systems. At the inverter side, commutation failure of switches is one of the most common faults that can pose threats to the system operation. Practical and reliable study of such phenomena relies on accurate and efficient converter models for simulations. Recently, a parametric average-value model (PAVM) has been presented for ac–dc rectifiers, which considers the internal faults of the converter. In this paper, the PAVM methodology is extended to the dc–ac inverter systems, including the commutation failure of switches. The proposed PAVM also augments an automatic fault detection technique to determine the faulty switches. Using comprehensive simulation studies, the developed model is verified to accurately predict the commutation failure of switches and reconstruct the waveforms consistent with the detailed switching models of inverters while being computationally more efficient. The proposed PAVM is envisioned to be an efficient and accurate asset for simulation of HVDC systems and inevitable when faults of switches need to be considered.

**Index Terms**—Average-value model, commutation failure, electromagnetic transient, line-commutated inverter, simulation.

Manuscript received April 5, 2021; revised August 5, 2021; accepted September 16, 2021. Date of publication October 1, 2021; date of current version July 25, 2022. This work was supported in part by the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities of China under Grant 2018JBZ004, and in part by the Natural Science and Engineering Research Council (NSERC) of Canada under the Collaborative Research and Development Grant. Paper no. TPWRD-00536-2021. (Corresponding author: Yin Xu.)

Zeqi Hong, Yin Xu, and Jinghan He are with the Department of Electrical Engineering, Beijing Jiaotong University, Beijing 100044, China (e-mail: 15117380@bjtu.edu.cn; xuyin@bjtu.edu.cn; jhhe@bjtu.edu.cn).

Seyyedmilad Ebrahimi and Juri Jatskevich are with the Electrical and Computer Engineering Department, The University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z4, Canada (e-mail: ebrahimi@ece.ubc.ca; jurij@ece.ubc.ca).

Color versions of one or more figures in this article are available at https://doi.org/10.1109/TPWRD.2021.3117027.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TPWRD.2021.3117027

## I. INTRODUCTION
LINE–COMMUTATED converters (LCCs) are widely used in classic high-voltage direct–current (HVDC) transmission systems for the integration of renewable energy sources with conventional power grids [1]. Although the LCCs have proven reliable with low cost, simplicity, and large capacity [2], [3], the commutation failure of switches at the inverter side of LCC-based HVDC systems is a common issue [4]. This phenomenon can lead to serious voltage drops at the dc transmission system [4], and if not handled properly, there will be a risk of dc blocking and missive power outage [5], [6].

Therefore, it is necessary to study such events to realize their causes, consequences, and devise possible detection and mitigation techniques. Conventionally, electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulations are conducted to study such kinds of phenomena using either nodal-analysis-based programs such as Micro-Tran, PSCAD/EMTDC, EMTP-RV, or state-variable-based programs such as MATLAB/Simulink, Simscape Electrical and PLECS, etc.

In all these EMT simulation packages, the detailed switching models of power-electronic converters (including LCCs) are available and can be readily used for simulating normal and/or faulty operation of converters. Although switching models can provide accurate results, they need to handle a large number of switching events, which impose a significant computational burden for the solution of the entire network. This slows down the simulations, especially for system-level studies, including multiple converters, and limits the size of the system that can be practically simulated [7]. Specifically, the detailed switching models are bottleneck in system-level studies [9], or optimization studies which need to run multiple simulations with different contingencies [10].

However, in many system-level studies, the details of individual switches inside the converters are not of great interest, and their overall operation is important instead. In light of this, the so-called average-value models (AVMs) [7]–[23] have been developed where the switching events are neglected (averaged out), and the converters are represented by a set of continuous algebraic equations which describe the relationships between the averaged dc and ac-side variables [7].

This makes the AVMs of converters much more efficient than their detailed switching model counterparts and suitable for system-level studies. More specifically, the so-called parametric AVMs (PAVMs) [12]–[21] have proven accurate in all operating modes of diode and thyristor-controlled line-commutated rectifiers (LCRs) under normal and unbalanced conditions. A PAVM has recently been developed in [20], [21], which considers the asymmetrical operation of LCRs due to internal faults of switches. This PAVM [20], [21] formulates the ac-side variables in positive and negative sequences and considers the dominant harmonics. It has been shown that the PAVM in [20], [21] can accurately predict the asymmetrical steady-state and transient response of faulty rectifiers under different conditions. However, this PAVM [20], [21] requires determining the fault configuration using an input to the model.

**Fig. 1.** Simplified schematic of the inverter side