# Benchmark High-Fidelity EMT Models for Power Grid with PV Plants

**Phani R V Marthi**, **Jongchan Choi**, **Suman Debnath**  
Energy Science & Technology Directorate, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Knoxville, USA  
marthip@ornl.gov, choij1@ornl.gov, debnaths@ornl.gov

**Abstract**—In recent times electromagnetic transient (EMT) modeling tools have been identified as one of the most important requirements in replicating, analyzing, and investigating the dynamics of the power grid with photovoltaic (PV) plants. However, there are no benchmark models for power grid with PVs to investigate emerging challenges with higher penetration of PVs (like trips and momentary cessations during faults from a region faraway). To this end, in this paper, benchmark high-fidelity EMT dynamic models of power grid with large-scale PV plants are presented. The models are developed in PSCAD and PSCAD/Fortran. Simulation results for different use cases (events) and scenarios are presented.

**Index Terms**—PV plant, EMT simulation, PV inverter.

## I. INTRODUCTION
The penetration of large-scale inverter-based resources (IBRs) in the power grid such as photovoltaic (PV) plants has increased tremendously in the past decade. With this development, there is a fundamental shift in the way the electric power grid responds to the events in the system. In the conventional power grid with synchronous generators, when the event happens the entire plant nearby would completely shut down. In the case of a power grid with a higher number of PV plants, the PV plants over a large region observe partial power loss rather than complete shutdown. Examples of such observations during events in CA are reported in numerous events [1]-[4]. One of the key requirements recommended by reliability entities (such as NERC) is to utilize electromagnetic transient (EMT) PV plant models with higher fidelity. These high-fidelity EMT models aid in accurately replicating, investigating, and analyzing the performance of the PV plant during an event. However, there are very limited to no benchmark EMT models of power grid with PV plants. A benchmark network for grid integration studies of large-scale PV plants in RSCAD is presented in [5]. In this work, the focus is not on developing a benchmark model of a PV plant instead the focus is on developing a network for grid integration of large-scale PV plants. In [6], a benchmark model for PV systems and smart inverter control in a low-voltage distribution network is presented. None of these works include benchmark EMT models of power grid with multiple PV plants. The research work in [7] is on EMT simulation of large PV plant and power grid for disturbance analysis. In this work, the EMT models developed are benchmarked with the real large-scale PV plant. However, these models are under non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA), limiting the usability by research community that explores algorithms to avoid trips or shutdowns in PV plants.

Therefore, in this paper benchmark EMT model of power grid with multiple PV plants is presented. These benchmark models are openly available and will help researchers in the development and testing of algorithms in operations to detect disturbances in power grid and take reactive or predictive actions in the power grid and/or in the PV plant. The benchmark model is based on integration of high-fidelity EMT dynamic model of PV plants in IEEE-39 bus system. The benchmark models are tested for different test cases in PSCAD. The first test case is the simulation of three PV plants connected to IEEE-39 bus system using benchmark models for different fault conditions in the system. The second test case is the simulation of three PV plants connected to IEEE-39 bus system using benchmark models for different short circuit ratio (SCR) in the system.

Research sponsored by Applied Grid Modeling (AGM) program in U. S. Department of Energy’s Office of Electricity (OE). The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the views of the U.S. Department of Energy or the United States Government. Phani Marthi, Suman Debnath, and Jongchan Choi are with Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Knoxville, TN 37932, USA (email: marthip@ornl.gov). This manuscript has been authored by UT-Battelle, LLC under Contract No. DE-AC05-00OR22725 with the U.S. Department of Energy. The United States Government retains and the publisher, by accepting the article for publication, acknowledges that the United States Government retains a non-exclusive, paid-up, irrevocable, world-wide license to publish or reproduce the published form of this manuscript, or allow others to do so, for United States Government purposes. The Department of Energy will provide public access to these results of federally sponsored research in accordance with the DOE Public Access Plan(https://www.energy.gov/doe-public-access-plan).

## II. HIGH-FIDELITY EMT DYNAMIC MODELS FOR PV PLANTS
The detailed layout of the generic PV plant is shown in Fig. 1. It consists of several components such as feeders (with symmetric lengths or asymmetric lengths), transformers, shunt capacitors, overhead transmission lines, underground transmission lines, PV inverters (different types of configurations), dc-dc converter controllers, dc-ac inverter controllers, multiple numbers of modules, protection algorithms, and PV array configurations. A high-fidelity EMT dynamic model of the generic PV plant is developed based on the information collected on the mentioned components that are typically used within the PV plant. Based on the collected information and data, parameters of the components in the generic PV plant are determined such as transformer impedance, shunts, inductance and capacitance of feeder lines, filters’ inductance and capacitance within a PV system, inverter configuration, dc link capacitance, and PV array voltage-to-current relationship. Data on the control parameters of the inverters were obtained from bus. These feeders can accommodate multiple PV systems. To model the distribution lines/cables within the grid, differential algebraic equations (DAEs) are employed, as outlined in [8]. The DAEs undergo discretization using second-order trapezoidal integration, resulting in a linear system of equations denoted as $A x = b$. The matrix $A$ takes the form of an arrowhead or doubly bordered block-diagonal matrix. During electromagnetic transient (EMT) s