# Co-simulation of Electromagnetic Transients and Phasor Models: a Relaxation Approach
F. Plumier, Student Member, IEEE, P. Aristidou, Student Member, IEEE, C. Geuzaine, Member, IEEE, and T. Van Cutsem, Fellow Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—Co-simulation opens new opportunities to combine mature ElectroMagnetic Transients (EMT) and Phasor-Mode (PM) solvers, and take advantage of their respective high accuracy and execution speed. In this paper, a relaxation approach is presented, iterating between an EMT and a PM solver. This entails interpolating over time the phasors of the PM simulation, extracting phasors from the time evolutions of the EMT simulation, and representing each sub-system by a proper multi-port equivalent when simulating the other sub-system. Various equivalents are reviewed and compared in terms of convergence of the PM-EMT iterations. The paper also considers the update with frequency of the Thévenin impedances involved in the EMT simulation, the possibility to compute the EMT solution only once per time step, and the acceleration of convergence through a prediction over time of the boundary variables. Results are presented on a 74-bus, 23-machine test system, split into one EMT and one PM sub-system with several interface buses.

**Index Terms**—co-simulation, phasor mode simulation, electromagnetic transients, hybrid simulation, hardware-in-the-loop

Frédéric Plumier (f.plumier@alumni.ulg.ac.be), Petros Aristidou (p.aristidou@ieee.org) and Christophe Geuzaine (cgeuzaine@ulg.ac.be) are with the Dept. of Elec. Eng. and Comp. Sc., Univ. of Liège, Belgium.
Thierry Van Cutsem (t.vancutsem@ulg.ac.be) is with the Fund for Scientific Research at Dept. of Elec. Eng. and Comp. Sc., Univ. of Liège, Belgium.
Work supported by the Belgian Science Policy (IAP P7/02) and by Walloon Region of Belgium (WBGreen Grant FEDO).

## I. INTRODUCTION
The term co-simulation refers to the combination of (at least) two different tools for performing a single multi-physics or multi-model simulation. This paper deals specifically with the co-simulation of EMT and phasor models. The main motivation behind this work is to combine the accuracy of EMT with the computational efficiency of PM simulations. While mature software exist for both models, further investigations and developments are needed for their efficient and accurate coupling.

A number of simulation and/or system reduction techniques have been proposed in the literature. EMT models [1] are the most accurate. They can represent network components at various levels of detail. Moreover, there are a number of mature EMT simulation software (e.g. EMTP-RV, PSCAD, Hypersim, etc.). Nevertheless, they are also the most computationally demanding, compared to simplified models. Dynamic Phasor models (e.g. [2]) can be as accurate as EMT ones and, at the same time, faster to simulate, when the waveforms are quasi-sinusoidal. However, to the authors’ knowledge, there exists no industry-grade tool relying on this approach. Reduced, equivalent models of a large portion of the system can be used, for instance in the form of a Low Frequency Equivalent, while performing detailed EMT simulations of the sub-system of greater interest [3]. This approach is faster than full EMT simulation, but with some decrease of accuracy. Even more simplified, the PM solvers, used in stability studies, are usually based on the positive-sequence phasors and assume negligible (or compensated) negative- and zero-sequence components [4]. While this is the fastest category of solvers, EMT phenomena are not considered. The approach reported in this paper combines PM and EMT solvers.

The idea of combining PM and EMT models can be traced back to [5], involving studies of High Voltage Direct Current (HVDC) current-source converters. Still today, PM-EMT hybrid simulations are mainly applied to HVDC systems (e.g. [6], [7]). A comprehensive literature review can be found in [8]. A drawback of many proposed methods is the relatively small size of the EMT sub-system considered, mainly for performance reasons. However, with the computational power available nowadays, larger EMT models can be simulated efficiently. Thus, a larger neighborhood of the device being investigated can be included in the detailed EMT model. Similarly, when a contingency is simulated in the EMT sub-system, a larger number of the impacted components can be represented in detail. In this way, when the boundary between the PM and EMT sub-systems is located further away from the disturbance, the voltages and currents at the interface are closer to the balanced, quasi-sinusoidal evolution assumed in PM simulations. This makes the extraction of boundary voltages and currents from the response of the EMT sub-system easier. On the contrary, if the PM-EMT boundary is too close to the disturbance location, a wide-band multi-port system equivalent has to be used, as discussed in [6] and its references, to represent the PM sub-system in the EMT simulation. Enlarging the EMT sub-system generally means increasing the number of interface buses between PM and EMT sub-systems. One issue tackled in this paper is the proper choice and update of the multi-port equivalent attached to those interface buses. This is an extension of the authors’ previous work reported in [9], [10].

The paper is organized as follows. Section II reviews the main PM-EMT boundary conditions proposed in the literature. Section III details the relaxation process including time interpolation and phasor extraction. Simulation results are presented in Section IV, before concluding in Section V.

## II. A SHORT REVIEW OF BOUNDARY CONDITIONS
Boundary conditions deal with the equivalent model used to replace one sub-system when simulating the other. Figure 1

Figure 2. Protocol of computation combining PM and EMT solvers

$\bar{V}_1, \ldots, \bar{V}_n$ are the voltage phasors at the $n$ boundary buses,