# Combining Detailed Equivalent Model With Switching-Function-Based Average Value Model for Fast and Accurate Simulation of MMCs

**Xuekun Meng**, Student Member, IEEE, **Jintao Han**, Student Member, IEEE, **Joel Pfannschmidt**, Student Member, IEEE, **Liwei Wang**, Member, IEEE, **Wei Li**, Member, IEEE, **Fei Zhang**, Member, IEEE, and **Jean Belanger**, Senior Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—Modeling and simulation play a vital role in the design and testing of modular multilevel converter (MMC) high voltage direct current (HVDC) systems. Detailed equivalent model (DEM) and switching-function-based average value model (SFB-AVM) are two major types of accurate and efficient models to represent the dynamic response of the MMCs. However, the DEM and the SFB-AVM possess unique benefits depending on the purpose of the simulation studies. The DEM provides a detailed representation of submodule (SM) switching events and individual capacitor ripples. The SFB-AVM provides faster simulation speed by using arm equivalent capacitance. Combining both models in a universal arm equivalent circuit gives the users the choice of selecting the most appropriate modeling method during dynamic simulation. This paper proposes a universal modeling framework combining the DEM with the SFB-AVM which allows the DEM and the SFB-AVM smoothly switch from one to the other during dynamic simulation. The proposed SFB-AVM can accurately represent the MMCs with different SM types. The proposed models are validated in offline and real-time simulation studies which demonstrate the improved simulation speeds of the proposed SFB-AVM over the DEM especially for large numbers of SMs.

**Index Terms**—Average value model, electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation, HVDC, modular multilevel converter, real-time simulation, switching function.

*Manuscript received April 7, 2019; revised August 4, 2019; accepted September 2, 2019. Date of publication October 2, 2019; date of current version February 19, 2020. This work was supported by Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council (NSERC) of Canada. Paper no.-TEC-00398-2019.R1 (Corresponding author: Liwei Wang.)*
*X. Meng, J. Han, J. Pfannschmidt, and L. Wang are with the School of Engineering, The University of British Columbia Okanagan, Kelowna, V1V 1V7 BC, Canada (e-mail: xuekun.meng@hotmail.com; williamhan1993@gmail.com; joelpfannschmidt@gmail.com; liwei.wang@ubc.ca).*
*W. Li, F. Zhang, and J. Belanger are with the OPAL-RT Technologies, Montreal H3K 1G6, Quebec, Canada (e-mail: wei.li@opal-rt.com; fei.zhang@opal-rt.com; jean.belanger@opal-rt.com).*
*Color versions of one or more of the figures in this article are available online at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.*
*Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TEC.2019.2944352*

## I. INTRODUCTION

MODULAR multilevel converter high voltage direct current (MMC-HVDC) technology has been widely used for the offshore renewable energy integration and regional AC grid connections [1], [2]. As an MMC-HVDC integrates a large number of submodules (SMs), each SM can be inserted or bypassed to create nearly perfect sinusoidal voltage waveforms at the point of common couplings (PCCs). Other benefits of MMC-HVDC are the reduced switching frequency and losses, eliminating the use of harmonic filters, independent control of active and reactive power, and enhancement of the weak AC grid connections [3]. By 2018, more than ten projects have been commissioned using MMC-HVDC [4]. It is foreseen that the MMC-HVDC will become the backbone of long distance power transmission systems in the near future for large-scale renewable energy integration [5]. However, the existing half-bridge (HB) MMC technology is vulnerable to DC-side short-circuit faults [6], [7]. Therefore, it is crucial for the MMC-HVDC to provide DC-side fault blocking ability in practical applications such as overhead-line transmission. To address this issue, recent research works have focused on developing alternative SM topologies, e.g., full-bridge (FB) SM [8], [9], clamped-double (CD) SM [10], [11] and mixed half- and full-bridge bridge (MB) SM [12], [13] to improve the DC-side fault blocking capability of the MMCs.

For dynamic simulation studies, the MMCs are modeled in electro-magnetic transient (EMT) type solvers [14] using microsecond time steps in order to accurately account for the fast and massive switching events in the SMs. Detailed semiconductor-switching-based MMC models can be formulated for a massive number of the SMs and are solved in a large conduction matrix in discrete-time domain. However, each switching operation within a SM will cause re-factorization of the conductance matrix leading to inefficient simulation for the MMCs.

Detailed equivalent models (DEMs) of the MMC are proposed in [15]–[19] to reduce the number of electrical nodes in a converter arm. The size of the conduction matrix and the overall simulation burden of the MMC are significantly reduced. The DEMs proposed in [17]–[19] can represent the converter blocking mode operation which further improves the simulation accuracy and model applicability. In [19], a multi-rate DEM is proposed for CPU- and FPGA-based real-time simulation in which a converter arm is represented by two anti-parallel diodes and controlled voltage sources simulated in CPUs. The controlled voltage sources are calculated from the capacitor voltages and gating signals of individual SMs simulated in FPGAs.

In order to achieve fast simulation speed of the MMCs, average value models (AVMs) are developed in [20]–[23]. The AVM represents the MMCs using AC- and DC-side Theveni