## COMPARISON OF THE ATP VERSION OF THE EMTP AND THE NETOMAC PROGRAM FOR SIMULATION OF HVDC SYSTEMS

**P. Lehn**, **J. Rittiger** (Member)  
Siemens AG, Box 3220, 91052 Erlangen, Germany

**B. Kulicke** (Member)  
Technische Universitat Berlin, Einsteinufer 11, 10587 Berlin, Germany

### ABSTRACT
This paper investigates the capabilities and limitations of the EMTP and the NETOMAC program as applied to HVdc system simulation. The fundamental differences between the two programs and their effect on simulation results are described. Consistency of the results obtained from these programs is examined through simulation of a test HVdc network. As expected, a very high degree of agreement between the two sets of simulation results proved to be achievable, but only when particular care was taken to overcome internal program differences. Finally, the new advanced stability feature of NETOMAC is briefly discussed and then tested against the complex transient models established in the EMTP and in the NETOMAC transients program section.

**Keywords:** HVdc simulation, ATP, EMTP, NETOMAC.

## INTRODUCTION
Particularly in the last 10 years, a wide variety of HVdc control strategies have been tested and optimized with the help of various digital simulation programs. In 1985 the great interest in HVdc system simulation led to the idea of establishing an HVdc benchmark model [1]. In the following years a comparison of one simulator and four digital models was carried out and then documented by a Cigre Working Group [2]. Computed results from the various simulation programs all agreed quite well with the reference simulator results (although completely calibrated NETOMAC results were first documented somewhat later [3]). Since virtually every computer model was established at a different location, generally only discrepancies between results from the simulator and a particular program model were addressed. Variations between the results obtained from different simulation programs therefore received little attention.

A comparative study between the EMTP and the NETOMAC program was therefore carried out by simulation of a common HVdc system with the two programs. Here, in contrast to the Cigre studies, particular attention was paid to minimizing all possible differences and locating any remaining sources of error which exist between the digital models. In addition, the study provided an ideal opportunity to demonstrate and test the abilities of the new advanced stability feature of NETOMAC, which was designed for the inclusion of complex HVdc networks in ac stability simulations.

For the purpose of this study the ATP version of the EMTP, supplied by the Leuven EMTP Center (LEC), was employed. The discussion presented however, is generally applicable to the other available EMTP versions (such as the EPRI an BPA version numbers 2.x) as well.

## THE EMTP AND THE NETOMAC PROGRAM
Both the EMTP and the NETOMAC program have been around for over 2 decades. Although the programs were initially perhaps somewhat limited in their abilities, continual program development and the rapid advance of computational facilities has transformed them into very powerful and flexible simulation packages. Currently, both packages are capable of representing an enormous variety of linear and nonlinear network elements, as well as controls and the controlled switches (thyristors) which are required for HVdc and SVC system modelling. They are also both capable of load flow and transient calculations and they offer a wide variety of advanced features such as inclusion of macros, or "modules" in the EMTP, calculation of line constants, and transmission line representation with the Marti Model. Of course certain features are peculiar to the individual programs. The most significant of these features in the EMTP are SPY, for interactive execution, observation and control, as well as support programs for conversion of supplied nonlinear transformer and inductor data into EMTP input format. As for the NETOMAC program, it offers a variable time step size, interpolation, and a stability calculation feature which has recently been made even more powerful.

When looking more closely at the two programs, 3 rather significant disadvantages of the present EMTP version can be seen when simulation of HVdc and SVC devices is considered. First, the fixed time step of the EMTP causes errors in switching times and can also cause the initiation of numerical oscillations [4][5]. Secondly, undesirable time delays occur between the solution of the control equations (in TACS) and the network equations [5]. Finally, because TACS was originally designed for the representation of analog controls, limitations become evident when modern digital controls are to be modelled [6]. While the newer MODELS option of the ATP version of the EMTP overcomes the problems of modelling digital controls and even reduces some of the time delays between the controls and network solutions, a great many users still only employ TACS to ensure their data files remain compatible with other EMTP versions.

In the case of the NETOMAC program, delays between the network and controls solutions are eliminated for HVdc applications, and switching operations employ an interpolation technique [8,9]. The delays in thyristor firing that occur with TACS and NETOMAC are shown graphically in Fig. 1. (It should be noted that not necessarily all the EMTP versions function quite identically [7] and the figure only shows the typical delays that are to be expected.) As can be seen from the figure, the delay in the EMTP when TACS is employed is on