## Comparison and Selection of Grid-Tied Inverter Models for Accurate and Efficient EMT Simulations
Kenichiro Sano, Member, IEEE, Shuntaro Horiuchi, and Taku Noda, Senior Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—This article compares five modeling methods of grid-tied inverters for the electromagnetic transient simulation of power system, clarifies their differences, and discusses the suitable model for each simulation purpose. The comparison was made under the same conditions between the conventional switching model, and four simplified models—voltage interpolation, average-value, controlled current-injection, and simplified current-injection model. The comparison of the simulated waveforms clarifies the behaviors that can be simulated and cannot be simulated by each simplified model. The comparison of the computing time reveals the significant decrease of the computing time by selecting the proper simplified modeling method. Based on these comparisons, this article discusses the selection of the modeling methods for each simulation purpose to perform simulations accurately and efficiently.

**Index Terms**—Average-value model, current-injection model, electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation, grid-tied inverter, voltage interpolation (VI) model.

## I. INTRODUCTION
With the penetration of renewable energy sources, inverter-based power sources are becoming dominant in power system. To simulate the transient behavior of such power system, the modeling of the grid-tied inverters is important. The phasor domain simulation is a major tool for power system analysis, where all components are modeled in the phasor domain and the symmetrical coordinates. It is suitable to deal with the behavior of a large scale power system with synchronous generators. On the other hand, general grid-tied inverters have a control system based on the instantaneous values of the detected three-phase voltage and current waveforms. Modeling of the inverter in the symmetrical coordinates is not straightforward because characteristics of the inverter cannot be decoupled between positive, negative, and zero sequence components. In addition, it is not easy to adequately model the behavior of the inverter including harmonics in the phasor domain simulation.

Therefore, the circuit simulation by three-phase instantaneous waveforms such as EMTP or EMTDC is often applied to accurately model and analyze the behavior of the inverters. The circuit simulation is also referred to as an electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation to distinguish it from the phasor domain simulations. Because the EMT simulation deals with three-phase instantaneous values, the control system of the inverter can be modeled in the same way as the actual implementation. The EMT simulation has been applied to various power system analyses as follows [1]. Harmonic analyses of the system with inverters [2], [3]. Stability analysis related to the inverter control [4]–[7]. Fault analyses influenced by the inverter’s transient behavior, the protection method, and fault-ride-through (FRT) operation [8]–[11]. Transient stability and voltage analyses of the system with inverters implementing frequency and voltage support by active and reactive power control, or grid-forming control [12]–[17]. The EMT simulation is used not only for offline simulations but also for real-time simulations [18].

Switching (SW) model is the most straightforward modeling method of the inverter for EMT simulations. It simulates the switching operation of power devices. Because the SW model emulates the detailed circuit operation, it can represent the dynamic behavior in most of the applications. However, the SW model requires to set the simulation time step to be small enough to represent the switching transients. The major problem is its large computing time, especially when it is applied to the analysis of a large-scale power system.

Advanced simulation methods have been proposed to reduce the computing burden. Dynamic phasor [19] enables to use a larger simulation time step, whereas it can deal with dynamic behavior of the inverter. The EMT simulations are combined with the dynamic phasor or the phasor domain simulation [20]–[23] to incorporate the advantages of the both methods. Field programmable gate array (FPGA) [24] or graphics processing units (GPU) [25], [26] is applied to accelerate the computation of the EMT simulations. Multirate simulation [27] divides the target system to multiple subsystems and calculates them with different simulation time steps. Although these algorithms are promising methods, they have to be supported by the solver of the simulation programs. Thus, most of the users cannot use them or have to wait for a while to be implemented in their familiar or commercially available EMT simulation programs.

Manuscript received June 11, 2021; revised September 5, 2021; accepted September 30, 2021. Date of publication October 6, 2021; date of current version November 30, 2021. This work was supported in part by Hokkaido Electric Power Co., in part by Tohoku Electric Power Co., in part by Tokyo Electric Power Co. Holdings, in part by Chubu Electric Power Co., in part by Hokuriku Electric Power Co., in part by Kansai Electric Power Co., in part by Chugoku Electric Power Co., in part by Shikoku Electric Power Co., in part by Kyushu Electric Power Co., and in part by Okinawa Electric Power Co. Recommended for publication by Associate Editor Y. Yang. (Corresponding author: Kenichiro Sano.)

Kenichiro Sano and Shuntaro Horiuchi are with the Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Tokyo Institute of Technology, Tokyo 152–8552, Japan (e-mail: sano@ee.e.titech.ac.jp; horiuchi.s@pel.ee.e.titech.ac.jp).
Taku Noda is with Grid Innovation Research Laboratory, Central Research Institute of Electric Power Industry, Yokosuka 240–0196, Japan (e-mail: takunoda@ieee.org).
Color versions of one or more figures in this article are available at https://doi.org/10.1109/TPEL.2021.3117633.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TPEL.2021.3117633

This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License. For more information, see https://c