# Comparison of dynamic phasor, discrete-time and frequency scanning based SSR models of a TCSC

Kaustav Dey $^{*,a}$, Mukesh Kumar Das $^{b}$, A.M. Kulkarni $^{a}$

$^{a}$ Department of Electrical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Bombay, Mumbai, India  
$^{b}$ ELECTRANIX Corporation, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada

☆ Paper submitted to the International Conference on Power Systems Transients (IPST2021) in Belo Horizonte, Brazil, June 6–10, 2021.  
* Corresponding author. E-mail addresses: kaustavdey4@gmail.com (K. Dey), md@electranix.com (M.K. Das), anil@ee.iitb.ac.in (A.M. Kulkarni).

## Abstract
Sub-synchronous Control/Torsional Interactions occur in a power system due to adverse interactions between the electrical network, turbine-generators and power-electronic systems. The extraction of time-invariant models of the system for analysis and design is often an onerous task due to the complex dynamics associated with power-electronic systems. The modelling techniques proposed in the literature include the use of discrete-time mapping, dynamic phasors and frequency scanning. Frequency scanning is a black-box approach, wherein a time-invariant model is extracted from the simulated response of the system to a probing signal. The first two techniques derive the model directly from the analytical equations (with several simplifying assumptions). This paper compares the accuracy of these models using the example of a SSR-vulnerable system which includes a TCSC. The presence of several poorly damped torsional modes and the use of a TCSC to damp them make this an excellent test case for modelling accuracy. It is seen that the frequency scanning based state-space model is quite accurate and its extraction using simulation and the vector fitting technique presents no significant difficulties, irrespective of the extent of modelling detail. The results demonstrate that this approach can be both convenient and accurate for sub-synchronous interaction studies.

## Keywords
Frequency scanning, Sub-synchronous resonance, Sub-synchronous damping control, TCSC, Dynamic phasors, Discrete-time modelling

## 1. Introduction
A power system consists of components like synchronous generators, loads, FACTS devices, HVDC converters, renewable sources and storage elements, which are connected to a transmission and distribution network. Sometimes, adverse interactions between these devices result in oscillatory instabilities. Phenomena like Power Swings, Sub-Synchronous Resonance (SSR), Sub-synchronous torsional interactions (SSTI), Sub-synchronous control interactions (SSCI), Induction Generator Effect and Harmonic Instability [1–4] are manifestations of such adverse interactions. Power swings are of relatively lower frequency ($0.1 - 2$ Hz), and therefore can be analyzed using quasi-sinusoidal steady-state (phasor) models. On the other hand, the other instabilities mentioned here are of higher frequency (typically greater than $10$ Hz), and require higher bandwidth models.

Eigenvalue analysis of a linear time-invariant (LTI) model of the system is often used to study these interactions. While detailed time domain simulations of the system using Electromagnetic Transients (EMT) programs can also capture the instabilities, the advantages of eigenvalue analysis are that (a) it provides insight into the participation of the different states in different modes, and (b) it facilitates the selection of feedback signals, controller structure, and the design of feedback controllers to alleviate instabilities, using well-established techniques. This motivates us to seek accurate LTI models of power system components.

The models of Power Electronic Systems (PES) are time-variant in the phase variables due to switching action. However, they are also time-periodic, which allows us to obtain LTI models by suitably transforming the variables. In situations where the lower-order switching harmonics are very small and switching is done in a balanced fashion across the three phases, a fundamental frequency approximation of the switching function may be used. It is then possible to obtain a LTI model using the well-known $D$-$Q$ transformation [5]. For thyristor based PES like HVDC converters, TCSCs and SVCs, which have significant lower order harmonics that may overlap with the controller bandwidth, such approximations may cause inaccuracies in the analysis of sub-synchronous interactions and harmonic instabilities.

To overcome this problem, two general analytical techniques have been developed for modelling time-periodic systems, namely, (a) discrete-time modelling [6–9] and (b) dynamic phasor modelling [10, 11]. The disadvantages of these analytically derived models are that (a) the derivations have to be customized to the specific PESs, whose controllers may also be non-standard, and (b) the derivations invariably involve several simplifying assumptions in order to make them convenient to incorporate in practical programs. Making these assumptions requires good engineering judgement, as the accuracy of the models for sub-synchronous interaction studies can be quite sensitive to how the control and synchroniz