## Comparison of soil modeling concerning physical factors: Application to transient analysis in wind turbines
Walter Luiz Manzi de Azevedo, Wagner Costa da Silva, Anderson Ricardo Justo de Araújo*, José Pissolato Filho
University of Campinas, Campinas, Brazil

**Keywords:** Electromagnetic analysis, Wind turbines, Lightning performance, Grounding system, Physical factors

**Abstract:** This work analyzes the impact of the physical factors (frequency effect, water content, and porosity level) on the voltages developed along the wind turbine (WT) subjected to lightning strikes. The analysis is performed considering a realistic grounding system (GS) where the full-wave electromagnetic (ES) software FEKO/Altair Engineering® calculates the GS harmonic impedance (HI) for 100 Hz to 10 MHz. For this purpose, six soil models [Visacro–Portela, Portela, Visacro–Alípio, Alípio–Visacro, Datsios–Mikropoulos, and Archie] and their transient responses are assessed. Comparisons are made with those assuming a frequency-constant (FC) soil at the dry condition. The GPR on the GS and the voltages on the tower base and nacelle are calculated using the software ATP® for the transient analysis. Results show a significant impact on HI with the physical factors, being remarkable at high frequencies and for high-resistive soils. Consequently, a notable decrease in the GPR peaks is seen compared with those with FC soils. These soil models and the lightning currents influence voltages at the nacelle and tower base. Results demonstrated that the Portela model predicts a more significant decrease in the voltages, and Datsios-Mikropoulos’s model provides closer responses to the FC soil. Increasing porosity yields larger peak values, and increasing water content produces lower voltages.

✩ This study was supported by the Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior (CAPES), Brazil - Finance code 001 and by the São Paulo Research Foundation (FAPESP), Brazil (Grant: 2019/01396-1).
* Corresponding author.
E-mail addresses: w157573@dac.unicamp.br (W.L.M. de Azevedo), w223738@dac.unicamp.br (W.C. da Silva), ajaraujo@unicamp.br (A.R.J. de Araújo), pisso@unicamp.br (J.P. Filho).

## 1. Introduction
Wind energy is one of the most efficient renewable energy resources nowadays due to its constant replenishment in nature where wind turbines have become taller to maximize the energy produced. The inexhaustible presence of wind yields electricity, eliminating the problems caused by burning fuels or polluting the air, and its low cost of installation and maintenance are the main advantages. However, wind turbines (WT) are openly exposed to lightning discharges during thunderstorms, mainly on their blade’s tip, due to their height, locations on elevated terrains, or areas with high isokeraunic levels during thunderstorms [1–3]. Besides that, new WTs are taller nowadays to yield more power extracted from wind energy than in the past. Therefore, these new turbines are more vulnerable to lightning surges during thunderstorms since these structures can be excellent lightning initiators in both upward and downward directions [4,5]. These generated overvoltages can be very harmful to many components located at the nacelle, such as sensible electronic power equipment, generator, and transformer, being vulnerable to high impulsive voltages during the transient state, leading to malfunctions or damage of these elements [2,6–8]. At the tower base, the abrupt ground potential rise (GPR) generated by the fast-front surge phenomena at the WT grounding system must be under a safe limit to guarantee the protection of people close to the grounding system (GS) and to reduce the damages to the installations and equipment in the vicinity [9,10]. In this frame, grounding systems are essential to estimate the temporary overvoltages along the parts of the WT and to design adequate insulation levels to protect several components during this transient state.

To correctly compute the overvoltages on a WT, the ground must be represented considering that its electrical parameters (electrical resistivity $\rho$, magnetic permeability $\mu$, and relative permittivity $\varepsilon$) are dependent on various physical factors, such as temperature [11], stratification [12,13], ionization [14,15], frequency dependency [16–21], water content [22–26] and porosity level [27,28]. Once a proper soil is adopted, the harmonic impedance of the GS can be assessed correctly for a large frequency range (from dc to MHz). Several ground models have been proposed in the literature to incorporate the frequency dependency in the soil resistivity and permittivity to correctly assess the transient responses generated by lightning discharges on transmission lines and wind turbines [6,21,25].

The influence of the frequency effect on the soil resistivity $\rho$ and relative permittivity $\varepsilon_{rg}$ has been extensively studied in many papers in the literature since 1960s [16–21]. The frequency dependence occurs due to the polarization phenomena on the soil particles related to the increasing frequency of the incident electrical field penetrating the impact on transient voltages along tall wind turbines (WT) subjected to lightning strikes. This work analyzes the impact of these physical factors on the transient voltages generated along a WT subjected to fast-rising pulses (lightning strikes). For this purpose, the harmonic impedance (HI) of the GS wind turbine is computed using the full-wave ES FEKO/Altair Engineering® employing the numerical Method of Moments (MoM) for $100\text{ Hz}$ to $10\text{ MHz}$. The models concerning FD soils proposed by Visacro–Portela [17], Portela [