# Comprehensive $DQ$ impedance modeling of AC power-electronics-based power systems with frequency-dependent transmission lines

Julio Hernández-Ramírez $^a$, Juan Segundo-Ramírez $^{a,*}$, Marta Molinas $^b$

$^a$ Autonomous University of San Luis Potosí, Engineering Department, Dr. Manuel Nava No. 8, Zona Universitaria Poniente, San Luis Potosí, 78290, San Luis Potosí, Mexico
$^b$ Norwegian Institute of Science and Technology, Department of Engineering Cybernetics, Elektro D/B2, D244, Gløshaugen, O. S. Bragstads plass 2, Trondheim, 7034, Trondheim, Norway

**Keywords:** Converters, Harmonic balance method, Impedance modeling, Nyquist stability criterion, Transmission line

**Abstract**
This paper introduces a time–frequency analytic method for the exact identification of wideband $DQ$ impedance models oriented to harmonic stability of converter-driven systems with transmission line models with distributed and frequency-dependent parameters. Wideband models are of great importance in the analysis of harmonic stability over a broad range of frequencies. The transmission line is a crucial component in this regard, but it is not straightforward to incorporate it into the impedance model of AC power-electronics-based power systems. This has led to the use of lumped parameter models or models based on rational approximations. This article proposes a method to include this important element to the impedance model directly from its frequency domain model. Salient features of the proposed modeling approach include the frequency telegrapher’s equations with distributed and frequency-dependent parameters, exact delay models of PWM, control implementations of power electronics, and an exact steady-state computation using a balance method based on a hybrid time–frequency approach. The proposal avoids time-domain simulations, rational approximations, or the fast Fourier transform. A converter-driven system with transmission lines is used to validate the proposal and the results of the frequency scanning method conducted in OPAL-RT (ARTEMiS/EMTP-RV) and PSCAD/EMTDC support the effectiveness, speed, and accuracy.

* Corresponding author.
E-mail addresses: jarmonyhr@gmail.com (J. Hernández-Ramírez), juan.segundo@uaslp.mx (J. Segundo-Ramírez), marta.molinas@ntnu.no (M. Molinas).

## 1. Introduction
The increment of power electronic devices (PEDs) in the electric networks has brought new challenges in their operation, analysis and control [1,2]. Despite the notable performance that PEDs have due to the usage of feedback control and fast response, this can also cause stability-related problems [3,4]. In fact, along with the traditional stability definitions, new ones have been added [5], such as the so-called converter driven-stability that focuses on the slow and fast interactions that converter-based systems could present; hence, there could be scenarios where both electromechanical and electromagnetic dynamics must be studied to assess the stability. This contrasts with the traditional conception of power systems dominated by synchronous machines, where phasor-based tools were enough to study low-frequency oscillations [6].

In this scenario, electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulations are more appropriate for the comprehensive study of fast oscillations [7]. This phenomenon is known as harmonic stability, and is related to the interactions of the PEDs and the passive elements of the network over a wide frequency range [8,9]. Nonetheless, incorporating the wideband models of transmission lines along with controlled PEDs is complex because the whole system would be of infinite dimension, nonlinear, and modeled in different frameworks. These problems make it difficult to accurately calculate the steady state solution of the system, which is necessary to obtain the accurate small-signal models used in stability studies.

There are no previous works dealing with the impedance modeling considering the full frequency-dependent transmission line with distributed parameters (TL), along to exact delay models of the PWM, control implementations associated with the PEDs, and the exact steady-state computation of nonlinear systems with frequency-dependent and distributed parameters elements, such as the TL. This paper presents a novel hybrid alternative to determine the impedance models in the $DQ$ framework of systems with TLs and PEDs. The TLs are represented exactly using their hyperbolic solution in the frequency domain, whereas the PEDs are modeled in the time domain, maintaining their nonlinear features. This approach first finds the steady-state solution accurately, following the harmonic balance method [10,11]. Then, using the analytic $ABC$ frequency-domain solution of the TL and the Park transform, the impedance model in $DQ$ is obtained based on evaluating the system response with a three-phase voltage at different frequencies. Nonetheless, repetitive time-domain simulations, EMT-type programs, is used to determine the impedance models in $DQ$ [26–28]. This approach could request extensive simulation time, especially on large scale, weakly damped, and stiff models. Moreover, more points should be obtained if a finer fitting is sought (this is extremely important to keep resonance peaks), increasing the time and comp