## Norton Equivalent Modeling of Current Source MMC and Its Use for Dynamic Studies of Back-to-Back Converter System
Mukeshkumar M. Bhesaniya, Student Member, IEEE, and Anshuman Shukla, Senior Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—Current source modular multilevel converter (CSMMC) is a good alternative for high-power applications with medium-voltage and high-current requirements. In such applications, to obtain the multilevel current output and for current scaling, a large number of submodules are required in CSMMC. Detailed representation of such systems in electromagnetic transient-type (EMT-type) simulation programs brings computational complexity with large computing burden. This paper presents a computationally efficient equivalent model of CSMMC based on the Norton equivalents. Each arm of the converter is represented by a two-node Norton equivalent in this model, which eliminate the internal intermediate nodes, and hence, significantly reduces the computing time. The proposed model is implemented in PSCAD/EMTDC by using the module component coded in FORTRAN and results are validated with the full-size traditional model in PSCAD/EMTDC. Moreover, hybrid models are presented and validated for the submodule level studies such as fail-safe functionality with redundant submodules. This paper also focuses on the control method and dynamic studies of the CSMMC based back-to-back system. The results of these studies are compared with the proposed equivalent model and accurate matching of the results confirms the usefulness of the proposed model in such studies.

**Index Terms**—Electromagnetic transients (EMT), modular multilevel converter (MMC), Norton equivalent, current source converter (CSC), back-to-back converters.

## I. INTRODUCTION
MODULAR multilevel converters (MMCs) are gaining importance as a key technology for high-power applications [1]-[6]. Voltage source MMCs, in particular, are highly suitable for medium to high-voltage applications, such as high-voltage direct-current (HVDC) transmission [2], [3]. Advantages and limitations of the voltage source MMCs for numerous applications are well reported in literature [1]-[6]. Alternatively, current source modular multilevel converters (CSMMCs) are the promising option for low to medium-voltage applications [7]-[9]. The salient features of the CSMMCs include modular construction, lower switching by changing the dc-link voltage polarity [9]. The high scalability of CSMMC to different power and current levels make it a competitive solution for the medium-voltage and high-power applications such as flexible ac transmission systems and grid integration of renewable energy. In [13], hybrid configurations of CSMMC and line-commutated converters (LCCs) are presented for HVDC applications. Moreover, in pumped-storage plants, it is an interesting option as static frequency converters (SFC) for variable speed synchronous units of very large size. Variable speed operation based on doubly-fed induction machines (DFIM) is the latest technology in pumped storage operation [10]. However, there are serious limitations of DFIM based systems such as time consuming start-up and synchronization process and complex design [10], [11]. Hence, the future trend will be more towards synchronous machines with full-scale converters in pumped-storage plants [11]. Due to medium voltage and high-current rating of the synchronous machines for these plants, the design of full-scale SFC, which is directly connected to the stator, is very challenging. However, using CSMMC, current scaling is possible due to the parallel connections of the submodules. This will make the CSMMC a potential candidate as SFC in pumped-storage applications. Many papers have also discussed the advantages of using current source converters (CSCs) for wind integration to the grid and it is reported in [12] that the CSC is most favorable for power ratings greater than 5 MW. Owing to the increased current capability, the CSMMCs are competitive options for such applications.

The full-scale CSMMC for high-power rating requires large number of submodules (SMs). If CSMMC is modeled using the detailed representation of all the semiconductor devices and passive components then, the simulation of such model in electromagnetic transient-type (EMT-type) program becomes computationally burdensome. In EMT-type simulation programs [15], Dommel’s algorithm is widely accepted method [14]. In this approach, the dynamic elements of the system are represented as the Norton equivalent using trapezoidal integration method. The resulting network using