# Damping multimodal subsynchronous resonance using a generator terminal subsynchronous damping controller

Xiaorong Xie^a, Yuanqu Zhang^{a,b,*}, Zhipeng Li^a

^a State Key Laboratory of Power System, Department of Electrical Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China
^b Xiamen Urban Planning & Design Institute, Xiamen 361012, China

\* Corresponding author at: State Key Laboratory of Power System, Department of Electrical Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China.
Tel.: +86 592 5356302; fax: +86 592 2273356.
E-mail addresses: xiexr@tsinghua.edu.cn (X. Xie), zhangyq05@gmail.com (Y. Zhang).

**Abstract**
This paper presents a generator terminal subsynchronous damping controller (GTSDC) for mitigating multimodal subsynchronous resonance (SSR) that may occur in series-compensated power systems. The proposed GTSDC system is composed of a digital controller and a power electronic inverter with current tracking control. It uses the shaft speed deviation of the generator turbine as feedback to modulate the dynamic current reference of the inverter through multimodal control paths. By exactly tracking the reference value, the power electronic inverter generates current at frequencies complementary to the torsional modes. Part of the current flows into the generator and creates damping torque on the shaft system to damp SSR. The relationship between the output current of GTSDC and the resulting electromagnetic torque is derived based on the complex torque coefficient method. Furthermore, a nonlinear optimization method is implemented to obtain the optimal parameters for all modal-control paths, thereby effectively enhancing the damping of all torsional modes under different operating conditions. The case study on a real series-compensated power system through eigenvalue analysis and electromagnetic simulations validates the effectiveness of the controller.

**Keywords:** Subsynchronous resonance (SSR), Generator terminal subsynchronous damping controller (GTSDC), Series-compensated power systems, Complex torque coefficient method

## 1. Introduction
Series-capacitor compensation in long-distance transmission systems is a very economical method of enhancing transient stability and transfer capability. However, the potential problem in series-compensated lines connected to turbine generators is subsynchronous resonance (SSR), which could result in shaft failure of mechanical system if not handled properly [1]. With the increasing utilization of series compensation in China, SSR is becoming a severe threat to the stability and security of large units and the power grid. In history, various measures [2], including blocking filter (BF) [3], supplementary excitation damping controller (SEDC) [4], static var compensator (SVC) [5], NGH SSR damping scheme [6,7] and thyristor controlled series capacitor (TCSC) [8], had been put into practical use to solve the SSR problem.

In recent years, with the increasing applications of high power converters based on fully controllable turn-off power semiconductors, some new countermeasures, such as STATCOM [9–17] and SSSC [18], have been proposed for SSR mitigation. As for the STATCOM-based scheme, auxiliary subsynchronous damping controller (SSDC) is generally adopted, which, by modulating the reactive current reference or bus voltage of STATCOM, produces positive electrical damping within the range of critical torsional frequencies to mitigate SSR. That said, previously proposed SSDCs are mostly simple proportional lead-lag controllers [9–17]. They each have one or more of the following disadvantages: (i) Only one control path is designed for all torsional modes, which means the controllers are not good enough for all aimed torsional modes, and are unable to solve multimodal SSR problem. (ii) SSDCs serve as an auxiliary control loop to the main voltage and/or reactive power control and thus the damping performance is restricted. (iii) The controllers are only validated under some specified operating points, and their robustness to variable operation conditions is not guaranteed. (iv) They are only verified with single-machine system, which is generally impractical in real world.

In this paper, a novel multimodal SSR mitigating device called “generator terminal subsynchronous damping controller (GTSDC)” is proposed and verified in a multimachine series-compensated system. GTSDC consists of an SSDC and a power electronic inverter with current-tracking controller. It has the following unique characteristics: (i) Connected to the generator terminal (high or low voltage side), GTSDC uses the shaft speed as the feedback signal and drives the power electronic inverter to generate current at frequencies complementary to torsional modes, which in turn produces damping torque on generator rotors to mitigate SSR. (ii) As the main transformation to generate the reference current signal for the corresponding mode. The reference