Received September 7, 2021, accepted September 13, 2021, date of publication September 14, 2021, date of current version September 23, 2021.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3112921

# Damping of Subsynchronous Control Interactions in Large-Scale PV Installations Through Faster-Than-Real-Time Dynamic Emulation

**SHIQI CAO** 1, (Graduate Student Member, IEEE), **NING LIN** 2, (Member, IEEE), AND **VENKATA DINAVAHI** 1, (Fellow, IEEE)
1 Electrical and Computer Engineering Department, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB T6G 2R3, Canada
2 Powertech Labs Inc., Surrey, BC V3W 7R7, Canada

**Corresponding author:** Shiqi Cao (sc5@ualberta.ca)

This work was supported by the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC).

**ABSTRACT** Large-scale photovoltaic (PV) power plant has witnessed a dramatic increase in the integration into transmission and distribution network, manifesting subsynchronous control interaction (SSCI) when the host grid is weak. In this work, the oscillation modes of a typical PV network are analyzed, and a faster-than-real-time (FTRT) emulation is proposed for predicting the SSCI and consequently mitigating its impacts on AC grid by taking the effective active/reactive power control action. The electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation is utilized to model the PV panels and converter stations to reflect the actual dynamic process. Meanwhile, the AC grid undergoes transient stability (TS) simulation to obtain a high speed up over real-time, and consequently, a power-voltage interface is adopted for the coexistence of different simulation methods. The reconfigurability and parallelism of the field-programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) enable the EMT-TS co-emulation strategy to run concurrently. With a remarkable 122 FTRT ratio, the proposed hardware emulation can provide an effective solution before the SSCI causes serious disruption following its detection. The hardware emulation results are validated by the off-line simulation tool Matlab/Simulink R and TSAT R in the DSAToolsTM suite.

**INDEX TERMS** AC/DC grid, dynamic simulation, electromagnetic transient, faster-than-real-time, field-programmable gate arrays, hardware emulation, parallel processing, predictive control, PV generation.

## I. INTRODUCTION

Due to enhanced environmental standards, worldwide renewable energy installation has witnessed a dramatic increase. Less restricted by geographical conditions and higher flexibility in terms of installation compared with other forms of renewable energies, the solar power system is deemed as one of the most effective solutions to the environmental problem and energy crisis [1]–[3]. Although the integration of photovoltaic (PV) generation systems eases energy demand on the modern power system, their connection to the utility network can lead to grid instability or even failure, if the converters are not properly controlled [4], [5].

In a grid with massive inverter-based renewable generations, subsynchronous resonance (SSR) due to subsynchronous control interaction (SSCI) has become increasingly common [6]. As a phenomenon of resonance between a power electronic device and neighboring series compensated transmission lines [7], the SSCI is distinct from torsional interaction which involves the mechanical system of a synchronous generator [8], and therefore, it may grow more rapidly and subsequently present a severe threat to the security and reliability of the overall power system.

First seen in a doubly-fed induction generator (DFIG) based wind farm in Texas in 2009 [7], tremendous efforts have since been endeavored in mitigating the SSCI in wind farms [9]–[11]. However, the inverter-based photovoltaic (PV) station is not exempted from the same phenomenon and needs investigation. The power generated by large-scale PV farms has to be transmitted over a long distance since the plants are usually far away from load centers. Therefore, the PV source in conjunction with the transmission links constitutes a weak grid that faces many stability issues, including the SSCI [12]–[16]. Considering that in an interactive network, the oscillations between a PV converter and the line will soon spread to the AC grid, analysis and mitigation of the PV oscillation become crucial in the transient stability analysis.

Among prevalent SSR analysis methods, frequency scanning is an approximate linear method that calculates the equivalent impedance of the whole system seen from the rotor at a specific frequency [17]. Its main drawback is relatively low accuracy, albeit little calculation effort is required. Time-domain simulation and eigenvalue analysis are more suitable for analyzing the SSCI in PV farms [18]. The former method takes the linear and nonlinear characteristics of the system into account, and it provides a variety of time-varying curves that reflect a real SSCI scenario under the circumstance of accurate modeling. Therefore, in this work, a detailed PV inverter is modeled to demonstrate the mechanism of SSCI by both eigenvalue analysis that obtains the oscillation frequencies and time-domain simulation.

be considerably reduced if they are used to inject the compensation signals only at the concerned subsynchronous frequency instead of fundamental [30]. Meanwhile, for the commissioned large-scale wind farms, it is sophisticated and economically unviable to individually implement the control schemes on the existing converters of diversely located hundreds of WTGs that could be of different make and/or type [31]. It is evident that both the RSC and GSC auxiliary damping controllers are specifically suitable for wind farms. There is not enough literature to support that supplementary damping controller techniques can be applied to photovoltaic power plants. Further, the utilization of FACTS devices or converter-based damping controllers is not an economical solution to mitigate the SSCI in the real-world.

SSCI involves the interactions between a weak transmission system and a power electronics control system (such as HVDC links, SVC, or wind turbine control system) [8]. The SSCI and its mitigation techniques for conventional wind farm systems have been well documented [9], [11], [32], [33], however, not as much