# Data-Driven Parameter Calibration of Power System EMT Model Based on Sobol Sensitivity Analysis and Gaussian Mixture Model
Yuhong Wang, Senior Member, IEEE, Bingjie Zhai, Shilin Gao, Member, IEEE, Yitan Guo, Chen Shen, Senior Member, IEEE, Ying Chen, Senior Member, IEEE, Zongsheng Zheng, Senior Member, IEEE, and Yankan Song

**Abstract**—The parameters of power system electromagnetic transient (EMT) model have great influences on the accuracy of EMT simulation. This paper proposes a data-driven parameter calibration method based on Sobol sensitivity analysis and Gaussian mixture model (GMM) to calibrate the parameters of the power system EMT models. First, the dominant parameters of the power system EMT model are derived based on the derivative-free Sobol sensitivity analysis method. Then, the GMM that describes the relationship between the dominant parameters and the EMT simulation errors is established and solved. Finally, an improved particle swarm optimization algorithm is adopted to optimize the EMT simulation errors and the values of the parameters are obtained according to the minimum error and the conditional probability invariance of GMM. The test results on four different systems show that the proposed method can accurately calibrate all dominant parameters of the EMT models of the various power systems.

**Index Terms**—Conditional probability, data-driven, EMT simulation model, GMM, parameter calibration, posterior distribution.

*Manuscript received 21 December 2023; revised 7 May 2024; accepted 8 June 2024. Date of publication 18 June 2024; date of current version 27 December 2024. This work was supported by the National Key R&D Program of China Response-driven intelligent enhanced analysis and control for bulk power system stability under Grant 2021YFB2400800. Paper no. TPWRS-01997-2023. (Corresponding author: Shilin Gao.)*

Yuhong Wang, Bingjie Zhai, Shilin Gao, and Zongsheng Zheng are with the College of Electrical Engineering, Sichuan University, Chengdu 610065, China (e-mail: yuhongwang@scu.edu.cn; zhaibingjie1@stu.scu.edu.cn; gaoshilin@scu.edu.cn; zongshengzheng@scu.edu.cn).
Yitan Guo is with the State Grid Corporation of China, Beijing 100031, China (e-mail: 276632482@qq.com).
Chen Shen and Ying Chen are with the Department of Electrical Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China (e-mail: shenchen@mail.tsinghua.edu.cn; chen_ying@tsinghua.edu.cn).
Yankan Song is with the Sichuan Energy Internet Research Institute, Tsinghua University, Chengdu 610042, China (e-mail: songyankan@cloudpss.net).
Color versions of one or more figures in this article are available at https://doi.org/10.1109/TPWRS.2024.3416177.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TPWRS.2024.3416177

## I. INTRODUCTION
With the development of power electronics and renewable energies in modern power systems, the dynamic characteristics of the power systems are becoming increasingly complex and traditional electromechanical transient simulation is difficult to meet the accuracy requirements of power system analyses. For the design, operation and control of modern power systems, the electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation is of great significance. In the EMT simulation of a power system, the parameter is one of the most important factors that influence the accuracy of simulation results. However, the parameters of the power system will change over time. In order to ensure that the simulation results accurately characterize the physical objects, the parameters have to be adjusted to the changes of the parameters of the real-life power systems, which is defined as parameter calibration [1].

The commonly-used parameter calibration methods mainly include the heuristic algorithm [2], least squares (LS) method [3], [4], gradient method [5], [6], Kalman filter [7], [8], [9], [10], [11], [12] and Bayesian analysis [13], [14], [15], etc. The heuristic algorithms are mostly constructed based on intuition or experience, which provide a feasible solution to the optimization problem. As a kind of heuristic algorithm, the particle swarm optimization (PSO) algorithm is used in the parameter calibration of battery in [2]. However, the computational efficiency of this method is very low when the solution space is high-dimensional. The LS method is widely used in various regression problems. Its basic idea is to minimize the sum of squares of estimation errors. A robust recursive LS algorithm is proposed for the parameter identification of the Lithium-ion battery model in [3]. In [4], the LS method has also been used for the parameter calibration of transmission line. Nevertheless, the LS method is difficult to solve the parameter calibration problem of nonlinear models, and its calculation efficiency is very low when the amount of sample data is large. The optimization algorithms based on gradient calculations have been proposed for the parameter calibration of synchronous generators in [5], [6], but the results of this method have the risk of the local optima. Kalman filter is widely used for the parameter calibration of the model with noise [7]. The traditional Kalman filter method estimates the system state for the linear system based on the observation. Therefore, the extended Kalman filter is developed for the parameter identification of the nonlinear models in [8], [9]. However, this method remains inapplicable for highly nonlinear models. To address this, a parameter estimation method based on advanced ensemble Kalman filter is proposed in [10], which can circumvent the linearization process but has the problem of slow convergence. A robust generalized maximum-likelihood unscented Kalman filter dominant parameters and EMT simulation errors is derived based on GMM in Section IV. In Secti