# Decoupled Detailed Equivalent Model for Parallel and Multi-Rate EMT-Type Simulation of Modular Multilevel Converter With Battery Energy Storage
**Walid Hatahet**, Graduate Student Member, IEEE, **Hengyu Li**, Member, IEEE, **Liwei Wang**, Senior Member, IEEE, and **Wei Li**, Member, IEEE

Walid Hatahet, Hengyu Li, and Liwei Wang are with the School of Engineering, University of British Columbia Okanagan, Kelowna, BC V1V 1V7, Canada (e-mail: liwei.wang@ubc.ca).
Wei Li is with the OPAL-RT Technologies, Montreal, QC H3K 1G6, Canada (e-mail: wei.li@opal-rt.com).

**Abstract**—Modular multilevel converters (MMCs) integrated with battery energy storage systems (BESS) enable efficient utilization of renewable energy resources such as wind and photovoltaic, while enhancing reliability and scalability of high-voltage direct current systems. This paper proposes a decoupled detailed equivalent model (D-DEM) for BESS-integrated MMC for electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation. The proposed model can accurately represent the dynamics of the converter under deblocking and blocking modes. To efficiently utilize available hardware resources, a multi-rate simulation technique is adopted to simulate the MMC subsystems with different time steps. Additionally, switching interpolation technique is proposed to accurately compensate for the intra-time-step switching events of the MMC multi-valves. To further accelerate the EMT simulation of MMC, a hybrid parallel computing EMT solver is implemented, using both central and graphical processing units (CPU-GPU). The accuracy of the proposed D-DEM is validated against a detailed model (DM) using Simulink/Simscape Electrical toolbox with 1 µs time step. The simulation efficiency of the proposed D-DEM is faster than the conventional DEM model by a factor of 2.81 with CPU-only implementation for the MMC with 400 submodules per arm. Furthermore, the proposed hybrid CPU-GPU solver achieves 79-fold faster than the CPU-only sequential implementation.

**Index Terms**—Battery energy storage system, electromagnetic transient simulation, multi-rate simulation, parallel processing, switching interpolation.

## I. INTRODUCTION
High voltage direct current (HVDC) transmission systems have witnessed a significant growth stemming from the widespread deployment in renewable energy systems [1]. The use of battery energy storage systems (BESS) is substantial to efficiently harness the surplus energy in the power grid [2], and accelerate the transition from high-emission power plants to clean renewable energy resources [3]. Embedding the BESS into the modular structure of modular multilevel converter (MMC) is recognized as an important solution to manage excess power in HVDC systems [4]. Unlike conventional central battery schemes, the modular configuration provides high reliability, scalability and optimized efficiency [5]. However, the integration of modular BESS in MMC introduces complexity into HVDC networks design and operation [6]. Thus, electromagnetic transient (EMT) studies are essential to provide detailed representation of system components, performance evaluation in fault analysis and grid stability assessment [7].

Significant challenges exist in the simulation of MMC-based HVDC systems under normal and faulty conditions. For instance, a large number of switching nodes of the MMC results in a high-dimensional, time-varying conductance $G$ matrix [8], leading to extensive computational complexities. In addition, the BESS-integrated MMC comprises converter subsystems with various switching frequencies, necessitating fine time step resolution and frequent conductance matrix re-factorization [9]. These challenges impose heavy computational burdens on conventional EMT modeling approaches and highlight the need for efficient equivalent circuit modeling strategies [10], [11].

Recent advancements in BESS-integrated MMC HVDC technologies have brought new imperatives for the accelerated EMT simulation of these systems. In [12], a detailed equivalent model (DEM), based on the Thevenin equivalent circuit of the MMC multi-valves, was developed to simulate converter dynamic response and high-frequency transients in AC three-phase faults. In [13], an average-value model was proposed for numerically efficient simulation of the BESS-integrated MMC. Numerically efficient equivalent models were proposed in [14], [15], [16] to model the MMC with embedded supercapacitor energy storage based on the Thevenin equivalent circuit. While these models offer valuable modeling insights, they are not able to represent the blocked state of the MMC in DC fault scenarios. Improved DEMs were developed in [17], [18] with provisions for representing the critical blocked state of the converter. However, the coupled submodule- and battery-side converters and time-varying conductance $G$ matrix of the BESS-integrated MMC still complicate the EMT simulation.

Advanced modeling algorithms, including multi-rate simulation and switching interpolation, are also critical to achieve high accuracy and efficiency of the EMT simulation of MMC-based HVDC systems. In [19], an efficient DEM of MMC