## Development of a Voltage-Dependent Line Model to Represent the Corona Effect in Electromagnetic Transient Program
**Thassio Matias Pereira and Maria Cristina Tavares, Senior Member, IEEE**

**Abstract**—This paper describes a new method to represent single-phase overhead transmission lines (TL) under corona effect in electromagnetic transient simulation program. Based on Bergeron model and the scheme proposed by Dommel to represent transmission lines in Electromagnetic Transients Programs (EMT), a voltage-dependent line model (VDLM) was developed. This model can be represented through of an equivalent impedance network and easily combined with other components of the electric power system. To solve the nodal equations of the network a simple technique is proposed, which is suitable to calculate lightning overvoltages transients and avoids the necessity of iterative methods, increasing the efficiency of the algorithm. The proposed method was implemented in Matlab software, and the simulation’s results were compared with field measurements to verify the accuracy of the model. Comparisons were also made with the traditional linear Corona Model. A good agreement could be observed between them.

**Index Terms**—Corona, Transmission line modeling, lightning overvoltages.

### I. INTRODUCTION
Accurate knowledge of overvoltages’ magnitude and waveform is essential to the insulation coordination design of overhead transmission lines. This information is normally obtained through digital simulations, where the Electromagnetic Transient Programs (EMT-type programs) are widely used due their versatile to represent several components of an electric power system.

The basic structure of the EMT was firstly presented by Dommel in 1969 [1]. Nowadays these programs have very robust line models capable of representing with good accuracy the frequency-dependence of line parameters [2], [3], [4], although the corona effect cannot be represent directly in these line models.

The corona effect occurs in an overhead line when the electric field in the conductor’s surface exceeds a certain critical value, causing the ionization of the air and the generation of space charge in the vicinity of the conductor [5], [6]. This phenomenon acts as a natural attenuator of surges, reducing the magnitude of the overv unrealistic and conservative results [7]. However, since it has distributed, nonlinear, hysteretic and frequency-dependent behavior, the representation of corona effect in the electromagnetic transient simulations is not easy to perform.

To the best of the authors’ knowledge, the only way to represent the corona effect in EMT consists in subdividing the TL into linear sections, and at each junction node is placed a shunt corona branch [8], [9]. Basing on this method, a technique that considers the corona branch implicitly was posteriorly proposed, it uses a recursive scheme and represents the line as a nonlinear component [10], [11]. Anyway, in these cases the corona is treated as an external and lumped component, and line parameters are kept invariant. To represent the distributed nature of the corona effect different methods were proposed over the years, which normally use numerical algorithms to solve the telegraph's equations [12], [13] or discretized Maxwell's equations [14], [15]. However, it should be noted that such methods are not suitable for representation in EMT type programs, since they are not described through Norton equivalents.

In this paper we present a new methodology to represent the corona effect in lightning overvoltages simulations. Basing on Bergeron line model and the scheme proposed by Dommel to represent single-phase overhead lines in EMT [1], a voltage-dependent line model (VDLM) was developed, which corresponds to a more general case of the Bergeron model and allows the corona effect to be represented directly into the line model. More specifically, the great difference between the proposed model and the previous models consists in the fact that the capacitance per unit of length of the line is treated as a voltage-dependent parameter, which results in a nonlinear representation of the line and reproduces the distributed nature of the phenomenon. Furthermore, since the VDLM can be represented by an equivalent impedance network, it can be implemented as a separate component or as a subroutine in any EMT program, which allows the model to be easily combined with other power system elements.

The corona model was implemented in Matlab software along with an algorithm that automatically makes the spatial