# Development of phase domain frequency-dependent transmission line model on FPGA for real-time digital simulator
Jiadai Liu a, *, Yuan Chen a, Hui Ding a, Yi Zhang a
a RTDS Technologies Inc., Winnipeg, MB, R3T 2E1, Canada

**Keywords:** Electromagnetic transient analyses, Real-time digital simulator, Field programmable gate arrays, Frequency-dependent transmission line, Parallel algorithm, Pipelining

**Abstract**
The transmission line model is one of the most important components for the real-time digital simulator based on the electromagnetic transient (EMT) algorithm. In order to predict the behavior of power systems under both steady and transient states, the coupling and frequency dependence of the transmission line need to be precisely represented. This paper presents a frequency-dependent phase domain (FDPD) transmission line model on a field programmable gate array (FPGA) for an EMT type real-time digital simulator. The developed model has been fully pipelined and parallelized in hardware to achieve the lowest time-step. All the hardware developments for this model depicted in this paper are carried out in VHDL, and a customized 48-bits floating-point data representation is used for hardware implementation to improve the accuracy. This developed FPGA-based line model can be interfaced to the rest of the network to perform real-time simulation.

## 1. INTRODUCTION
The real-time digital electromagnetic transient type power system simulator is an important tool for the power system industry in the analyzing, design and development of new solutions to alleviate operational challenges of complex grids, especially in transient conditions. Compared to mathematical models and analog simulators such as a transient network analyzer (TNA), the digital real-time simulator provides a more comprehensive solution with lower cost, reduced space and flexibility to expand. This allows the digital real-time simulator to play an important role in the testing of manufactured controller and protective devices in a hardware-in-the-loop (HIL) configuration, in the planning of new grids such as determining component rating and isolating level, and in the training and education of operators. Digital real-time simulation requires all necessary calculations to be finished within a certain period of time, which is called a simulation time-step, as they happen in real world, to reproduce whatever happens in a real power network. All simulations and tests are done in digital laboratory conditions, so that the real-time digital simulator can be used to test a power system under extreme conditions such as overvoltage and overcurrent conditions under EMT states. The simulation time-step is a critical factor in HIL simulation in order to reproduce the high frequency transient and power electronic phenomenon. Depending on the application, the range of digital real-time simulation time-step size is from several microseconds to hundreds of microseconds.

Transmission lines are important components in power systems for transmission and distribution of electrical energy. The transient behavior of a transmission line, such as frequency-dependent impedance characteristics and propagation, will have a great impact on the transient overvoltage and overcurrent. This will need to be addressed when a transmission line model is developed for EMT type real-time digital simulation. Significant efforts have been put into studying the behavior of transmission lines and developing accurate models for steady-state and transient state simulation. Traditionally, the transmission line models can be classified into two categories: lumped parameter Pi section models and travelling-wave models. The Pi section models consider both mutual and self resistances, inductances and capacitances at a single frequency but do not take into account the propagation of the transmission line. The travelling wave models, also known as distributed-parameter models, consider transmission line propagation and can be further classified into two sub-categories: constant parameter and frequency-dependent parameter transmission line models. The first type of model represents the transmission line in the modal domain, and the parameter is calculated at a single frequency, so this model can only be applied within a very limited bandwidth. The second type of model represents the transmission line by taking into account the frequency-dependence nature when calculating its parameters, and this type of model is the most accurate model type for transient simulation.

The modal domain frequency-dependent model calculates transmission line solutions in the modal domain and then transfers the solutions to the phase domain by performing a linear transformation. This model works well for symmetrical and transposed lines, however, not for asymmetrical and untransposed lines since this model uses constant transformation matrices which cannot be guaranteed to always be accurate and which may cause error [1, 2, 3]. Phase domain models avoid the transformation matrices by performing all calculations directly in the phase domain [4, 5, 6, 7, 8]. Among these models, the universal line

$$i_k(t) = G \ast v_k(t) - i_{histk}(t), \tag{5}$$

$$i_m(t) = G \ast v_m(t) - i_{histm}(t). \tag{6}$$

The history current vectors $i_{histk}(t)$, $i_{histm}(t)$ and equivalent impedance matrix $G$ are expressed as

$$i_{histk}(t) = Y_c \ast v_k(t - \Delta t) - 2H \ast i_{mr}(t - \Delta t - \tau), \tag{7}$$