# Digital twins of multiple energy networks based on real-time simulation using holomorphic embedding method, Part I: Mechanism-driven modeling

Xiaoli Huang a, Hang Tian a,*, Haoran Zhao a, Haoran Li a, Mengxue Wang a, Xu Huang b

a School of Electrical Engineering, Shandong University, Jinan, 250061, China
b State Grid Tianjin Electric Power Company, Tianjin, 300010, China

**Keywords:** Digital twins, Holomorphic embedding, Multiple energy networks, Mechanism-driven model, Real-time simulation

**Abstract:** Digital twins can provide system operators with a new way to design, operate, and maintain highly-interconnected multiple energy networks (MEN) by integrating interdisciplinary models using the co-simulation technique and implementing faster-than-real-time simulation enabled by powerful modern computing facilities. This series of papers presents digital twins of MEN capable of real-time simulation facilitated by the holomorphic embedding method. As Part I of this series of papers, mechanism-driven modeling is concentrated to guarantee that high-resolution solutions are computationally accessible. A holomorphic embedding-based model (HEM) for MEN is proposed, which uses time-dependent holomorphic functions to depict the time-varying dynamics of gas and heat flows. A convergence radius model (CRM) is proposed to obtain the essential convergence information of HEM, thereby improving its computational performance to match the real-time requirement. Finally, the effectiveness of the proposed method is validated in a medium-sized study case. The results show that the proposed method offers a significant computational benefit with competent precision when compared to standard differential methods, laying the groundwork for the realization of MEN’s digital twins.

*This work was supported by the National Key Research and Development Program of China (grant number 2018YFA0702200) and the National Natural Science Foundation of China (grant number 62192753).*
*Corresponding author. E-mail address: 201820424@mail.sdu.edu.cn (H. Tian).*

## 1. Introduction

Multiple energy networks (MEN), where different energy flows are interconnected and coordinated to release potential flexibility, have received increasing attention in recent years due to their potential for more efficient energy utilization and lower carbon emission [1]. However, the synergistic coordination among multiple energy and the complex dynamic processes involved make the design, optimization, and operation of MEN challenging [2]. Digital twins were first presented by Dr. Michael Grieves in 2002 [3]. Digital twins refer to a virtual representation of a physical object that can be utilized to conduct simulations, investigate performance concerns, and produce potential modifications, all with the purpose of creating insightful information that can later be applied to the initial physical object [4]. In recent years, Digital twins have been implemented on different energy infrastructures, such as microgrids [5], polymer electrolyte membrane electrolyzer [6], smart cities [7], etc. It can offer valuable experimental verification and optimized solutions for MEN development and operation, thereby improving its economic efficiency and reliability.

In the digital twins of MEN, the synchronization between the digital replica and the physical counterpart should be guaranteed [8]. To achieve such synchronization, the digital model needs to be solved at least in real-time with adequate accuracy, which can be accomplished via real-time simulation. Furthermore, if the output can be provided at a much smaller time ahead of real-time, the digital twins are considered useful for deriving control or scheduling decisions [9]. Faster-than-real-time performance is continually pursued in the power system for activities involving transient stability analysis [10], decision support system-aided simulation [11], electromagnetic transient simulation [12], and so on. Despite its widespread use in power systems, faster-than-real-time simulation is presently not practical in MEN owing to the high computational cost of solving partial differential equations involving various energies with desired precision. The research objective of this series of papers is to utilize mechanism-driven and data-driven approaches to develop digital twins of MEN capable of performing the real-time simulation. In Part I of this series of papers, the real-time simulation capability of digital twins will be mathematically implemented by mechanism-driven modeling.

Accuracy and computing speed are two major concerns in realizing real-time simulation of MEN. Dynamic behaviors of MEN are generally described by partial differential equations (PDEs) [13–15]. Currently, the classic numerical methods for solving PDEs include the finite difference method, the finite volume method, and the finite element method [16–19], all of which provide discrete PDEs’ solutions via spatio-temporal discretization. Unfortunately, discretization in both spati