Received 13 November 2024; revised 21 December 2024; accepted 27 December 2024. Date of publication 3 January 2025; date of current version 29 January 2025. The review of this article was arranged by Associate Editor Yingyi Yan.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/OJPEL.2024.3525019

# Discretized Impedance-Based Modeling of Converter-Interfaced Energy Resources for State-Variable-Based Real-Time EMT Simulators

**TALEB VAHABZADEH**<sup>1</sup> (Member, IEEE), **SEYYEDMILAD EBRAHIMI**<sup>2</sup> (Member, IEEE), AND **JURI JATSKEVICH**<sup>3</sup> (Fellow, IEEE)

<sup>1</sup> Electric Power Engineers, LLC., Austin, TX 78735 USA
<sup>2</sup> School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Washington State University, Pullman, WA 99163 USA
<sup>3</sup> Electrical and Computer Engineering Department, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z4, Canada

**CORRESPONDING AUTHOR:** SEYYEDMILAD EBRAHIMI (e-mail: s.ebrahimi@wsu.edu)

This work was supported by the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council (NSERC) of Canada under the Collaborative Research and Development Grant.

**ABSTRACT** Modern power systems are experiencing high penetration of voltage-source converter (VSC)-interfaced distributed energy resources and loads. Design, analysis, and reliable operation of such systems require extensive offline and real-time electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulations. This paper proposes discretized impedance-based modeling (DIBM) of VSCs for efficient time-domain transient analysis in state-variable (SV)-based EMT simulators. Specifically, the VSC-based systems are first represented as admittance-based models in Laplace domain, and then they are discretized and formulated to construct a Thévenin equivalent impedance matrix and history voltages that can be interfaced seamlessly with external systems in SV-based simulators. By replacing VSC subsystems with Thévenin equivalent circuits, the proposed DIBM technique significantly reduces the number of states and eliminates the need for fictitious snubbers that may be needed in SV-based EMT simulators for compatible interfacing. The effectiveness of the proposed DIBM approach over the conventional method that uses average value models of VSCs is demonstrated on a seven-bus VSC-based system in offline (MATLAB Simscape Electrical) and real-time (OPAL-RT) EMT simulators. It is verified that the proposed method enables high accuracy and larger simulation time steps while also significantly improving the overall computational performance.

**INDEX TERMS** Admittance-based modeling, average-value model (AVM), discretization, EMT simulation, impedance-based modeling, interfacing, state-variable, voltage source converter (VSC).

## I. INTRODUCTION
The adoption of renewable and distributed energy resources (R/DERs) has surged in modern electric power systems, prompting significant changes in electricity generation, transmission, and distribution [1], [2]. The interfacing of such R/DERs into conventional power grids is mainly done using power-electronic-based voltage-source converters (VSCs) [3]. While the increasing use of power electronics offers potential benefits such as enhanced controllability, sustainability, and overall efficiency, it also introduces new challenges [4]. These challenges include, but are not limited to, faster system dynamics and potential sub/super-synchronous converter-grid interactions [5], [6]. With the increasing deployment of VSCs and the rapid evolution of grid dynamics, there is a need for advanced simulation tools capable of analyzing modern power-electronic-based systems efficiently and accurately [7].

The so-called state-variable-based (SV-based, e.g., MATLAB Simscape Electrical, PLECS, OPAL-RT, Typhoon HIL [8], [9], [10], [11]) and nodal-analysis-based (NA-based, e.g., PSCAD, MicroTran, EMTP, RTDS [12], [13], [14], [15]) electromagnetic transient (EMT) programs are among the most common tools for studying modern power systems with fast transients. The SV-based programs utilize a differential-algebraic modeling approach to represent all system components, from which the state-space equations are constructed. These equations are subsequently discretized and numerically solved using ordinary differential equation (ODE) solvers [16], [17]. Although SV-based simulators are very effective for studying small-scale power systems and power electronics, they are computationally expensive for the analysis of large-scale VSC-based systems [18]. The offline SV-based packages (e.g., MATLAB Simscape Electrical and PLECS) do not have time constraints and may offer variable time-step ODE solvers for enhanced simulation efficiency. The real-time SV-based simulators (e.g., OPAL-RT and Typhoon HIL) are constrained to fixed-time steps due to interfacing with hardware and the real-time simulation environment.

The NA-based programs, on the other hand, are based on the discretization of the differential equations at the component level (typically using the numerical trapezoidal rule of integration) [19]. This, in turn, results in a set of difference equations that are formulated in the nodal form and solved at each t

simulation time steps, it introduces a time-varying conductance matrix that requires additional calculations at every simulation step. More recently, a constant-parameter DI-AVM (CP-DI-AVM) was proposed for more efficient simulations of VSC-based power-electronic systems in NA-based simulators, which does not require re-calculation of the network conductance matrix at each simulation time step [28]. This was achieved through a numerical approximation. Although both the DI-AVM [25] and the CP-DI-AVM [28] can effectively eliminate the interfacing time-step delay in the implementation of VSC AVMs, they are specifically derived for NA-based simulators, such as PSCAD and RTDS. Although a direct translation of the method in [25] and [28] to SV-based simulators (e.g., MATLAB, Opal-RT, etc.) is possible, it would offer only limited improvements due to interfacing.

Recent research efforts have been made to employ admittance-based modeling (ABM) to improve the EMT simulations of VSC-based systems in SV-based programs [30], [31], [32]. In ABMs, the converters are typically expressed