## Distance Protection Scheme for DC Distribution Systems Based on the High Frequency Characteristics of Faults
Ke Jia, Member, IEEE, Qijuan Zhao, Student Member, IEEE, Tao Feng, Student Member, IEEE, Tianshu Bi, Senior Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—Due to the advantages of flexible and efficient power conversion, large power supply radius and high power quality, flexible DC distribution system has become an important research trend. However, when DC fault occurs, the short-circuit current provided by the converter is nonlinear due to different controls. In this case, it is difficult to identify the correct faulted area based on the converter’s varying impedance. Aiming at the above problems, based on the characteristics of fault transient components in the system, the circuits of fault high frequency signal in the converters are analyzed. Then the high frequency constant impedance equivalent models of converters are established, which are not affected by the control strategies. On this basis, a distance protection method based on the feature of high-frequency fault transient is proposed. This method utilizes the electrical transients of several milliseconds before and after the fault, extracts the high frequency components of the voltage and current to map the faulted section, and realizes the fault region identification by combining the protection setting and coordination. The detailed model of a six-terminal flexible DC distribution system is built on PSCAD/EMTDC electromagnetic transient simulation platform. The simulation results show that the proposed method has good speed and selectivity. It can reliably identify faulted areas, and can withstand transition resistance and system noise.

**Index Terms**—Flexible DC distribution systems, high frequency fault component, converter, distance protection

## I. INTRODUCTION
THE flexible DC distribution system, which can connected new energy sources and DC loads efficiently and flexibly, is becoming one of the research hotspots of distribution network [1]-[4]. However, when the short-circuit fault occurs in DC distribution system, the converter’s own control and protection operate quickly [5]-[7], which results in minimum fault transient process, and time-varying equivalent converter impedance. Traditional protection based on fault characteristics of amplitude and phase angle at fixed frequency is difficult to accurately identify the fault areas in multi-branch distribution network. Using the limited transient information to quickly and distribution system protection. At present, the protections of flexible DC distribution system are still in the theoretical research stage, which are usually derived by modifying the protection schemes of AC system and HVDC transmission system. The developed DC system protections can commonly be classified as double-ended [8]-[11] and single-ended [12]-[19] schemes. Double-ended protection can offer a clear protection boundary within the communication devices. The DC system differential protection is studied in literature [8]-[10], which is not affected by the size of distributed generation and fault current; Reference [11] use the ratio of transient voltage on both sides of current limiting reactor to form a pilot protection, it has good resistance to transition resistance. Double-ended protection schemes can remove faulted fast and accurately, but they often require high quality communication channel and sometimes strict synchronous signal. Single-ended protection does not need to consider the communication problems. References [12]-[15] study the application of traditional current, voltage and their derivative values for protection in DC distribution system to achieve high speed protection. However, due to the complex structure of distribution system, most of the settings depend on simulation calculation and it is challenging to achieve a correct setting with time-varying converter impedances. References [16]-[18] study the technical problems of traveling wave protection when applied to DC distribution network. Traveling wave protection relies on different fault characteristics of traveling wave passing through boundary elements such as converter’s DC side fault current limiting inductors to identify faults, and its operation speed is fast. This method is effective in a system with lines just connected between converters. For the complex system that not all the lines are equipped with those inductors, its application is limited. In reference [19], a distance protection principle for DC system is proposed. The principle involves the division of measured voltage at the relaying point by the measured current to calculate the impedance, and the fault is