## Dual-Band Reduced-Order Model of an HVDC Link Embedded into a Power Network for EMT Studies
Carlos Ruiz, Student Member, IEEE, Edgar Medina, Student Member, IEEE, Abner Ramirez*, Senior Member, IEEE, Ali Mehrizi-Sani, Senior Member, IEEE, J. Jesus Chavez, Member, IEEE, Ali Davoudi, Senior Member, IEEE, and Mohamed Abdel-Rahman, Senior Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—This paper presents an approach to obtain reduced-order models for power networks involving power electronic converters (PEC) via the frequency-domain balanced realizations (FDBR) technique. PECs play an essential role in power processing and energy conversion in modern electrical networks, such as the interconnection of renewable generators, HVDC links, and active filters. Integration of PECs into dynamic equivalents needs model-order reduction (MOR) in both low- and high-frequency ranges to account for both slow and fast dynamics due to the network and switching natures. The objective of the FDBR technique is to obtain an internally balanced system, i.e., an equally controllable/observable system, that can be reduced according to its dominant dynamics within the limited frequency bandwidths. This allows accounting for specific band-limited phenomena, such as those generated within a power network caused by PECs, which is the focus of this paper. The results show that faster yet accurate simulations are achieved by reduced-order models through FDBR compared to their full-order counterparts.

**Keywords:** Electromagnetic transient analysis, frequency-domain analysis, reduced order systems.

## I. INTRODUCTION
A DETAILED representation of modern electrical power systems for electromagnetic transient (EMT) studies requires considerable computational resources [1]. This computational burden has been traditionally addressed by utilizing average value models (AVM), mainly accounting for DC and fundamental frequency, speeding up simulations at the cost of ignoring high-frequency dynamics [2]. Alternatively, MOR techniques aim to derive a reduced-order dynamic model that reproduces the most important dynamic properties of the original system. The reduced-order dynamic model diminishes computational complexity and utilizes less computational resources compared to the original system [1], [3]-[5]. Due to the damping effect and low-pass feature of linear power system components, transient phenomena do not travel far into the network, which is the traditional key motivation for reducing power systems can be broadly classified as:
- Modal analysis (MA).
- Singular value decomposition (SVD), which includes the classical time-domain balanced realization (BR) method.
- Moment matching (MM), also known as Krylov methods.

The above-mentioned techniques provide a reduced-order system in the form of a first-order state space representation [9]-[10].

MOR techniques based on MA identify and preserve the dominants modes; however, the input and output characteristics are not completely preserved [11]. SVD-based methods, e.g., BR, characterize equally controllable and observable modes via Hankel singular values. Lyapunov equations are solved to calculate the system’s Hankel values; such solution can imply computational burden for very large systems [10]. The MM methods are the most computationally efficient; however, they do not exhibit global error limits as in BR technique. Also, MM methods require selection of interpolation points, which is not automated and depends on the user’s specifications.

In [12], an extended Krylov subspaces method is applied to reduce a large-scale power system in the low-frequency range, and then the reduced-order model is incorporated into an unstable power system to tune a PSS stabilizer. Also, with focus in the low-frequency range, [13] presents a novel model order reduction scheme for power networks based on clusters on which the structure of the network is preserved. A few applications of the classical BR technique, such as medium-voltage system and networks including wind power plants, are described in [14]. In [15], the model coherency method is combined with classical BR to produce reduced-order models of dynamic equivalents. In [16] linear modal analysis and proper orthogonal decomposition are combined to obtain reduced-order models for the analysis and control of inter-area