# Dual Reversible Transformer Model for the Calculation of Low-Frequency Transients
Saeed Jazebi, Student Member, IEEE, Francisco de León, Senior Member, IEEE, Ashkan Farazmand, and Digvijay Deswal

Manuscript received April 02, 2013; accepted June 10, 2013. Paper no. TPWRD-00376-2013.
S. Jazebi, F. de León, and A. Farazmand, are with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Polytechnic Institute of New York University, Brooklyn, NY, 11201 USA (e-mail: jazebi@ieee.org; fdeleon@poly.edu; farazmand@nyu.edu).
D. Deswal is with the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, West Bengal 721302, India, (e-mail: deswal.digvijay@gmail.com).
Color versions of one or more of the figures in this paper are available online at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TPWRD.2013.2268857

**Abstract**—This paper presents a physically consistent dual model applicable to single-phase two-winding transformers for the calculation of low-frequency transients. First, the topology of a dual electrical equivalent circuit is obtained from the direct application of the principle of duality. Then, the model parameters are computed considering the variations of the transformer electromagnetic behavior under various operating conditions. Current modeling techniques use different topological models to represent diverse transient situations. The reversible model proposed in this paper unifies the terminal and topological equivalent circuits. The model remains invariable for all low-frequency transients including deep saturation conditions driven from any of the two windings. The proposed model is tested with a single-phase transformer for the calculation of magnetizing inrush currents, series ferroresonance, and geomagnetic-induced currents (GIC). The electromagnetic transient response of the model is compared to the model and to laboratory measurements for validation.

**Index Terms**—Electromagnetic transients, low-frequency transformer modeling, principle of duality, transformers.

## I. INTRODUCTION
TRANSFORMER models for transients are classified into several categories according to the frequency of the transient under study [1]–[3]. Inrush currents, ferroresonance, and geomagnetic-induced currents (GICs) are some of the most common low-frequency transients that are important for transformer studies and design. Inrush currents can be very large, in some cases exceeding 20 p.u., with long durations that may cause false tripping of differential protection, insulation degradation, and coil deformation due to mechanical stresses. Ferroresonance produces transients with short periods of high current and overvoltages on the windings, which may cause insulation failure. GICs are increasingly becoming a cause for concern since they can produce widespread blackouts.

A gamut of low-frequency transformer models exists in the literature [4]–[17]. Some models are valid for a very wide range of frequencies [4], [5]; some are specially developed for low-frequency transients [6]–[15]; and among them a few are specific for the calculation of inrush currents [12]–[17]. There are only a few models intended to compute ferroresonant overvoltages [8]. It has been established that the models derived from the principle of duality [18], best represent the transient phenomena in transformers [4]–[12]. This is so because each component in the model represents a physical region inside the transformer. However, different dual and physical models exist for the same transformer in the literature [1].

Other physically accurate models exist based on equivalent magnetic circuits; see [13] and [14]. However, these models are not dual electrical models and, therefore, they are not directly compatible with electromagnetic transient programs.

In 1991, Arturi highlighted a significant difference between the transient behavior of windings when the iron core goes into deep saturation [6]. He developed a time-domain dual model capable of simulating the out-of-phase synchronization condition. To correctly represent the heavily saturated behavior, linear inductances are connected in series with the magnetizing branches. Arturi’s model is very detailed and relies on the availability of complete geometrical information of the iron core and windings. A similar approach is implemented in [8] to model a five-legged wound-core transformer for ferroresonance studies. Later, this method was expanded to develop a reversible transformer model in [14]. Reference [14] highlights the considerable difference between magnetizing inrush currents drawn from primary and secondary sides. The model in [14] is reversible and appropriate for the calculation of inrush currents of single-phase two-winding transformers. The model is derived from the solution of the magnetic equivalent circuit and, thus, is topologically correct. The only drawback of this model is that it cannot be built directly with circuit elements readily available in electromagnetic transient programs (EMTP type).

Existing guidelines propose the model (with two leakage inductors, and one magnetizing branch) for the calculation of low-frequency transients [2], [3]. However, the model is not physically consistent and there is evidence showing that it fails for transients involving deep saturation [19]–[22]. The weak behavior of the model to predict inrush currents or ferroresonance has been reported in [21] and [22], respectively. The model has been proposed as a more physical and accurate alternative [21]. In addition, the model, with two magnetizing branches, provides more degrees of freedom to develop a dual reversible transformer model.

The main contribution of this paper is to propose a reversible model for single-phase two-winding transfor