## Dynamic Averaged and Simplified Models for MMC-Based HVDC Transmission Systems
Working Group on Modeling and Analysis of Systems Transients Using Digital Programs, General Systems Subcommittee, T&D Committee, IEEE Power & Energy Society, Task Force on Dynamic Average Modeling

H. Saad, J. Peralta, S. Dennetière, J. Mahseredjian, J. Jatskevich, J. A. Martinez, A. Davoudi, M. Saeedifard, V. Sood, X. Wang, J. Cano, and Ali Mehrizi-Sani

**Abstract**—Voltage-source converter (VSC) technologies are rapidly evolving and increasing the range of applications in a variety of fields within the power industry. Existing two- and three-level VSC technologies are being superseded by the new modular multilevel converter (MMC) technology for HVDC applications. The computational burden caused by detailed modeling of MMC–HVDC systems in electromagnetic transient-type (EMT-type) programs complicates the simulation of transients when such systems are integrated into large networks. This paper develops and compares different types of models for efficient and accurate representation of MMC–HVDC systems. The results show that the use of a specific type of model will depend on the conducted analysis and required accuracy.

**Index Terms**—Average-value model (AVM), electromagnetic–transients (EMT)-type programs, high-voltage direct-current (HVDC) transmission, modular multilevel converter (MMC), voltage-source converter (VSC).

## I. INTRODUCTION
The development of controllable semiconductor switches and voltage-source converter (VSC) technologies is rapidly expanding the fields of applications of high-voltage direct current (HVDC) and flexible ac transmission systems (FACTS) in power systems. VSC-based HVDC systems present several advantages in comparison with traditional line-commutated converter (LCC)-based HVDC transmission [1]. VSC–HVDC technology combines an insulated-gate bipolar transistor (IGBT)-based VSC with dc transmission lines to transfer power up to 1000 MW [2]. The potential applications of VSC–HVDC systems include interconnections of asynchronous systems, grid integration of offshore wind farms, electrification of remote islands and oil and gas stations, and multiterminal dc grids [3]–[5]. VSC-HVDC systems can independently control active and reactive powers by maintaining stable voltage and frequency [6] which enables the supply of very weak grids and even passive networks [7]. Various VSC topologies, including the conventional two-level, multilevel diode-clamped and floating capacitor multilevel converters, have been proposed and reported in [8] and [9]. However, due to the complexity of controls and practical limitations, the VSC–HVDC system installations have been limited to the two-level and three-level diode-clamped converters. Recently, the development of the modular multilevel converter (MMC) technology with series-connected half-bridge modules, has overcome the limitations of other multilevel converter topologies for HVDC applications [10], [11]. MMC topologies enable using a lower switching frequency for reducing converter losses. In addition, filter requirements are eliminated by using a significant number of levels per phase. Scalability to higher voltages is easily achieved and reliability is improved by increasing the number of submodules (SMs) per multivalve arm [12].

The high number of power switches in the MMC introduces important challenges when modeling this converter topology in electromagnetic-transient-type (EMT-type) simulation tools. Detailed MMC models include the representation of thousands of IGBT switches and must use small numerical integration timesteps to accurately represent fast and multiple simultaneous switching events. The computational burden introduced by such models drives the need to develop reduced-order models capable of accurately replicating the behavioral response of switches, converters, and controls through simplified functions and controlled sources [13], [14].

The average value models (AVMs) approximate system dynamics by neglecting switching details. The AVMs require significantly less computational resources and can use larger integration time steps, leading to much faster computations [15]. AVMs have been initially developed for power-electronic converters [16] and since then, this concept has been applied to modeling many systems, including wind generation [17], [18]. Applications to HVDC transmission, including two- and three-level VSC technologies, are presented in [16] and [19]–[21]. Reference

Manuscript received September 26, 2012; accepted February 23, 2013. Paper no. TPWRD-01015-2012.
The authors are Contributing Members of the IEEE Task Force on Dynamic Average Modeling.
Task Force on Dynamic Average Modeling is with the Working Group on Modeling and Analysis of Systems Transients Using Digital Programs, General Systems Subcommittee, T&D Committee, IEEE Power & Energy Society.
Taskforce Members: S. A. Abdulsalam, D. Aliprantis, U. Annakkage, H. Atighechi, J. Belanger, J. M. Cano, S. Chiniforoosh, A. Davoudi, V. Dinavahi, O. Faruque, S. Filizadeh, D. Goldsworthy, A. Gole, R. Iravani, J. Jatskevich (TF chair), R. Jayasinghe, H. Karimi, M. Kuschke, A. St. Leger, J. Mahseredjian, J. Martinez, N. Nair, L. Naredo, T. Noda, J. N. Paquih, J. Peralta, A. Ramirez, A. Rezaei-Zare, M. Rioual, M. Saeedifard, K. Schoder, V. Sood, K. Strunz, A. VanDerMeer, X. Wang, A. Yazdani.
Color versions of one or more of the figures in this paper are available online at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TPWRD.2013.2251912