# Dynamic Phasor Based Interface Model for EMT and Transient Stability Hybrid Simulations
Dewu Shu, Student Member, IEEE, Xiaorong Xie, Senior Member, IEEE, Venkata Dinavahi, Senior Member, IEEE, Chunpeng Zhang, Xiaohui Ye, Qirong Jiang, Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—Electromagnetic transient (EMT) and transient stability hybrid simulations are predominantly used to analyze the interactions between HVDC systems and the AC grids. However, the dynamics of the converters will be greatly affected by the waveforms of adjacent AC systems. Waveform distortion as well as time delay caused by interfacing can significantly increase interface errors, resulting in the decrease of the overall accuracy of the simulations. To solve such problems, a dynamic phasor based interface model (DPIM) is proposed in this paper to improve the accuracy of interfaces, especially when the fault occurs near the converters. In doing so, the whole system is partitioned into three parts: the transient stability (TS) subsystem, the EMT subsystem, and the DPIM. During each iteration, the interfaces between the TS subsystem and DPIM are represented by their Norton equivalents at the fundamental frequency and Thevenin equivalents in the dynamic phasor form. Similarly, the interfaces between DPIM and EMT subsystems are represented by their three phase Norton equivalents and Thevenin equivalents in dynamic phasors, respectively. The effectiveness concerning the accuracy and the efficiency of the proposed method is validated by simulating a practical HVDC Project.

**Index Terms**—Dynamic phasors, electromagnetic transient (EMT), HVDC, hybrid simulation, interface model, transient stability.

## I. INTRODUCTION
Line commutated converter (LCC) based HVDC system is often adopted for transmission of large-scale renewable energy, such as the Qinghai-Tibet HVDC project in China [1]-[4]. In order to analyze the interactions between HVDC and AC systems accurately and efficiently, the EMT and TS hybrid simulations is often used [5]-[9]. For hybrid simulations, the power system is first partitioned into one TS subsystem, different EMT subsystems and the interface model according to different levels of detail. And the interface model is used to reflect the interactions between them. The hybrid simulations can satisfy both the accuracy requirements of detailed power electronic devices and the efficiency requirements of large-scale power systems, as the power grids are simulated with a large time-step TS program and local detailed power electronic systems are simulated with small time-step EMT programs.

Previous studies of hybrid simulations mainly focused on improving the accuracy of the interface model as well as the overall efficiency [6]-[11]. Particularly, the waveforms of adjacent AC systems have a great impact on the dynamic characteristics of the HVDC converter, especially if the effective short circuit ratio (ESCR) is lower than 2.5. When the fault nears the interface bus of the converter, the decreased accuracy of the interface model will reduce the overall simulation accuracy greatly. Moreover, one interaction step delay exist for the calculations of parameters of the interface model. Therefore, developing the interface model is the key to improving the overall simulation accuracy of the hybrid simulations. Norton/Thevenin equivalents in the time-domain are generally adopted as the interface model between TS and EMT subsystems, where the interface line is represented as the PI-section branch [6]-[7]. In [6], the influence of frequency on the parameters of interfaces are taken into account to improve the accuracy of interfaces in the EMT subsystems. One method to improve the accuracy of the interface model in the EMT subsystem is the frequency dependent network equivalent (FDNE) method [8]-[9]. However, its drawback lies in the relatively low computational efficiency and spurious transients during a switching operation of a new FDNE model. In [11], the waveform distortion problems of EMT subsystems are mitigated by extending the interface buses far into the AC grids in order to comply with the three-phase balanced assumption. However, the simulation accuracy of this method is still unsatisfactory and the efficiency was severely curtailed. When the fault occurs near the converter, it is very important to improve the accuracy of the interface model in the TS subsystem, i.e., the Norton equivalents [12]. Typical techniques include the curve-fitting technique and the FFT/DFT technique [6], [8]. For the curve-fitting technique, data in multiple cycles are processed. Therefore, a large amount of computation affects the efficiency of this technique and the obtained parameters lack physical interpretations. Similarly, for the FFT/DFT technique, all the samples during th

*This work was supported in part by the Major Program of the National*