# Dynamic Equivalence Method of DDPMSG Wind Farm for Sub-Synchronous Oscillation Analysis
Longyuan Li, Hang Zhang, Ruiqing Fu, and Xiaoru Wang, Senior Member, IEEE
School of Electrical Engineering
Southwest Jiaotong University
Chengdu, China
xrwang@home.swjtu.edu.cn

**Abstract**—Single or multiple wind turbine generators (WTGs) model have already been used in sub-synchronous oscillation (SSO) analysis. However, there is little researches on the equivalence method of wind farm (WF) for the SSO study. The general equivalence method may lose the weak damping SSO mode. In this paper, a DDPMSG WF multi-machine equivalence method is proposed for SSO analysis. According to their SSO modes, the DDPMSGs are grouped in two steps. The oscillation frequency or damping is only considered in each step. The parameters of equivalent DDPMSG model are calculated by aggregation in each group. Furthermore, an online application processing method is proposed. The simulation verification is carried out based on small signal model and electromagnetic transient model of WF. The results show that the weak damping SSO mode of WF is well preserved in the proposed method.

**Index Terms**—DDPMSG wind farm, sub-synchronous oscillation (SSO), multi-machine equivalence, weak damping mode, online application.

## I. INTRODUCTION
Recently wind power develops rapidly. Subsequently, the sub-synchronous oscillation (SSO) of the wind power becomes serious and the accidents also occur frequently [1]. After the SSO of doubly fed induction generator (DFIG) wind farm (WF) in 2009, a large direct-drive permanent magnet synchronous generator (DDPMSG) WF in Xinjiang, China, experienced SSO in July 2015. It caused tripping of the torsional oscillation relay protection of nearby steam turbine [2]. However, it was generally believed that the DDPMSG would not have SSO problem before this accident.

Many researches show that when the DDPMSG is connected to the weak system, it may cause SSO [2]-[4]. The SSO of the DDPMSG is mainly related to the grid-side converter and its control [2], [3]. In terms of oscillation frequency, the oscillation frequency of the SSO mode, $f_{dq}$, can be obtained in $dq$-frame. Due to the asymmetrical dynamics of the phase-locked loop (PLL) and outer control loops in the $dq$-frame, two frequency components $f_1 \pm f_{dq}$ can be detected in the $abc$-frame [4], which is coinciding with the frequency of SSO accidents in Xinjiang.

In the WF equivalence applied to transient stability analysis, it is quite common to use multi-machine equivalence method for WF [5], [6]. However, in the SSO analysis, it is more common to aggregate the WF into a single-machine model [2]-[4]. Reference [7] points that in most scenarios, WF can be equivalent to a single-machine model. But in the case of weak power grid, multi-machine equivalence can reflect the stability margin of the system better. The characteristics of the WF dynamic model are more dependent on the aggregation if power grid is weak.

In the research on the SSO analysis, when the WTGs are with multiple operation states, the WF will be modeled as multi-machine equivalent model [8], [9]. However, there are not many researches focusing on the equivalence method of WF for the SSO analysis. Reference [10] proposes an evaluation method for equivalent model in SSO analysis. It takes the average Euclid distance between the corresponding eigenvalues of the detailed model and the equivalent model as the criterion for the equivalence effect. However, this index ignores the weak damping SSO mode of the WF. In the WF equivalence applied to transient stability analysis, the objective is to keep consistent active and reactive power responses at the point of common connection (PCC) before and after the equivalence [5], [6]. By contrast, the main focus is on the weak damping mode of the WF in the SSO analysis. So it is expected to preserve the weak damping mode of the WTG as far as possible in the equivalent model. Therefore, due to different objectives, it is necessary to study the WF equivalence method applied to SSO analysis.

This paper studies the WF equivalence from the perspective of multi-machine equivalence method. This method can well preserve the weak damping mode of WF, which is the mainly contribution in this paper. The arrangement of this paper is as follows. Section II give the clustering method of WTGs. The parameter equivalence method are presented in Section III. A processing method in online application scenario is introduced in Section IV. Section V give the simulation example based on small signal model and electromagnetic transient model. The conclusion is presented in Section VI.

## II. THE TWO-STEP CLUSTERING METHOD OF WTGS
The SSO analysis focus on the weak damping mode of the WTG. So the weak damping mode is expected to be persevered as far as possible in the equivalent WF model. If using the conventional clustering method i.e. unsupervised learning, which is carried out directly based on the wind power, the WTGs with weak damping mode cannot be divided into the same group accurately. Therefore, it would be better to classify the WTGs exactly according