# Efficient electromagnetic transient simulation for DFIG-based wind farms using fine-grained network partitioning

**Jiale Yu, Haoran Zhao\*, Yibao Jiang\*, Bing Li, Linghan Meng, Futao Yang**  
*School of Electrical Engineering, Shandong University, Jinan, 250061, China*

**Keywords:** Large-scale wind farm, Doubly fed induction generator based wind turbine, Electromagnetic transient, Parallel computing, Fine-grained network partitioning

**Abstract:** Electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation plays a critical role in understanding the dynamic behavior and fast transients involved in wind farms (WFs). However, as WFs continue to develop on a large scale, the increasing number of wind turbines and network nodes poses significant challenges for efficient EMT simulation of WFs. To address this issue, we propose a fine-grained network decoupling method for doubly-fed induction generator (DFIG) based WFs. This paper first establishes the decoupling algorithm for core electrical equipment of DFIG-based WFs. By employing device-level fine-grained decoupling, the dimensionality of the admittance matrix for WF is effectively reduced, significantly decreasing the computational load. Additionally, this paper establishes a scalable computational framework by integrating multi-threaded parallel computation into the simulation process, which enhances efficiency further. The proposed method is compared with detailed models in Matlab/Simulink to verify efficiency and accuracy. Simulation results demonstrate that this method significantly improves simulation efficiency, achieving a two-order-of-magnitude speedup with 50 wind turbines, and it maintains high simulation accuracy, with a maximum relative error of 1.68%.

✩ This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (grant number 52307112) and the Shandong Provincial Natural Science Foundation, China (grant number ZR2023QE204).  
\* Corresponding authors. E-mail addresses: hzhao@sdu.edu.cn (H. Zhao), yjiang@sdu.edu.cn (Y. Jiang).

## 1. Introduction

With the increasing global energy demand and worsening environmental issues, the large-scale grid integration of wind power has become inevitable [1]. Doubly fed induction generator (DFIG) based wind turbines, with advantages such as low cost and high regulation flexibility [2], have been widely used in onshore and offshore wind farms (WFs). In order to accurately reveal the high-frequency dynamic characteristics of DFIG-based WFs, electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation is necessary [3]. Establishing highly efficient EMT simulation methods is crucial for renewable energy integration and stable system operation [4].

However, WFs continue to develop on a large scale, resulting in increasingly complex topologies and a rising number of nodes [5]. EMT simulation of WFs based on detailed model encounters challenges such as high computational complexity, high matrix dimensionality, and small simulation time step [6]. These challenges make it difficult to meet the efficiency requirements for scientific research and practical engineering applications. Currently, research on efficient EMT simulation methods for large-scale WFs can be categorized into three main types: dynamic equivalence methods [7], node elimination methods [8], and network parallelization methods [9].

For the dynamic equivalence methods of WFs, existing research mainly includes two categories [10,11]: model order reduction methods and equivalence methods. Model order reduction methods utilize techniques such as singular value decomposition [12] and Krylov subspace methods [13] to obtain simplified models for WFs. Equivalence methods, on the other hand, represent the WFs as one or several equivalent wind turbines [14]. These dynamic equivalence methods significantly improve the simulation efficiency [15]. However, they cannot cover all operating conditions of WFs or reflect the internal states of the wind turbines, which limits the simulation accuracy and applicability of these models [16].

Considering that dynamic equivalence methods cannot reflect internal states, some studies have proposed the node elimination methods. These methods achieve lossless internal node elimination of wind turbines based on nested fast and simultaneous solution method (NFSS) or Thévenin/Norton equivalent principles [17], and can obtain internal information through inversion techniques [18], thereby improving simulation efficiency while maintaining high accuracy [19]. However, the derivation processes for these methods are relatively complex. When the topology changes, re-derivation is necessitated, which is time-consuming and reduces the flexibility of the approach [20].

Distinct from the node elimination method, the network parallelization methods emphasize dividing the detailed model of WFs into multiple independently solvable subsystems. Subsequently, the states of each subsystem can be obtained in parallel [21]. In light of the rapid advancements in parallel computing devices and the current constraints on serial computation efficiency, these methods are gradually emerging as a current academic focus [22]. Ref. [23] introduces the decoupling method bas