# Efficiently computing the electrical parameters of cables with arbitrary cross-sections using the method-of-moments

M. Shaﬁeipour $^{a,*}$, Z. Chen $^{b}$, A. Menshov $^{c}$, J. De Silva $^{a}$, V. Okhmatovski $^{b}$

$^{a}$ Manitoba Hydro International Ltd., Winnipeg, Canada  
$^{b}$ Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada  
$^{c}$ Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, The University of Texas at Austin, USA  

$^{*}$ Corresponding author. E-mail address: mshaﬁeipour@mhi.ca (M. Shaﬁeipour).

**Article history:** Received 15 December 2017; Received in revised form 30 March 2018; Accepted 17 April 2018; Available online 24 May 2018

**Keywords:** Cable modeling; Per-unit-length (p.u.l.) electrical parameters; Surface-volume-surface electric ﬁeld integral equation (SVS-EFIE); Method-of-moments (MoM); Electromagnetic transient program (EMTP); Inductance and capacitance extraction

**Abstract:** In a recent work, a proximity- and skin-effect aware formulation known as the surface-volume-surface electric ﬁeld integral equation discretized with 2-D method-of-moments (MoM) was optimized to efﬁciently extract the frequency dependent series impedance matrix of cables with arbitrary shapes. However, it was only applied to sector-shaped and coaxial cables due to the constraints on computing the shunt admittance matrix using closed-form approximations. This work presents formulation, discretization, and optimization techniques, for fast computation of the shunt admittance matrix of arbitrary-shaped cables by discretizing the problem of the quasi-electrostatics using 2-D MoM. With the proposed MoM techniques and optimization strategies, it is possible to accurately compute all the electrical parameters of arbitrary-shaped cables required in electromagnetic transient programs (EMTP) using today’s typical computer power and with reasonable computational times. This provides an efﬁcient modeling tool for any desired cable design. Frequency domain solutions of the proposed technique are compared against the ﬁnite-element method as well as the classical approximate formulas available for pertinent cable models. The resulting time domain transient simulations in EMTP are also investigated.

## 1. Introduction

Electromagnetic transient programs (EMTP) rely on transmission line models [1–3] for representing the frequency dependent behavior of multiconductor transmission lines (MTLs) such as overhead lines and underground cable systems. In order to account for the geometry and material properties of such systems over the power system frequencies spanning from DC to several MHz, these models require the per-unit-length (p.u.l.) series impedance matrix $[Z]$ and the shunt admittance matrix $[Y]$ of the system at different frequency points. This makes computation of the electrical parameters of cables and transmission lines an integral part of any EMT analysis involving transmission and distribution of electric power.

In the case of overhead lines, computationally efﬁcient closed-form approximations [4] are accurate as they assume a symmetrical distribution of current which models the skin-effect while neglecting the proximity-effect. This is because overhead lines can be represented in symmetrical canonical form (i.e. circular cross-section) and are typically located far enough apart that neglecting the proximity-effect is a valid assumption. On the other hand when modeling underground cables, the aforementioned assumptions may not be valid as a function of the considered frequency and/or the cable design. Underground cables usually consist of several closely situated conductors which are separated by insulation materials as exempliﬁed in Fig. 1. At higher frequencies, this can cause the proximity-effect to have a large impact on the $[Z]$ and $[Y]$ matrices of the system [8,10,11]. Furthermore, underground cables have been introduced and used with various types of geometrical shapes such as pipe-type [7] (Fig. 1(a)), sector-shaped [5,19] (Fig. 1(b) and (c)), umbilical [8], and other practical examples such as the one shown in Fig. 1(d) [9]. Thus assuming circular cross-section can lead to errors more than $5\%$ in computing $[Y]$ and $[Z]$ matrices where the cable cross-section is not conﬁned to circular boundaries [8,10]. Such error levels in computing the electrical parameters of the cable system may result in modeling of the transmission line with unacceptable EMT simulations[^1] as reported in [11] and shown in this paper.

**Fig. 1.** The 2-D cross-section of the cables under study drawn to scale. All conductors are copper with resistivity of $\rho = 1.68 \times 10^{-8} \ \Omega\cdot\text{m}$, and all insulators are made of cross-linked polyethylene (XLPE) with dielectric constant of $\varepsilon_r = 2.3$ and negligible dielectric loss ($\tan \delta = 0$). In (a) and (b), adjacent core conductors (circular or sector-shaped) are $120^\circ$ apart with respect to the center of the cable while in (c) and (d) $90^\circ$ rotation is performed. No ferromagnetic material is used and so the relative permeability is $\mu_r = 1$ everywhere. Cable conductors are numbered $\alpha = 1, 2, \dots, 5$, in accordance with the results presented in Section 5.

[^1]: As a general rule suggested by Prof. A. Ametani [12], the following average error levels are tolerable in power systems. In simulations about $0.1\%$, in magnitude of measurement results about $5\%$, and in wave-shape of the measurement results $10\%$ to $30\%$.

Since under