**Efficient steady state analysis of the grid using electromagnetic transient models**
Aayushya Agarwal *, Larry Pileggi
Electrical and Computer Engineering Department, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, United States of America

**Keywords:** Electromagnetic transient analysis, Harmonic balance, Steady state, Ordinary differential equation, Waveform

**Abstract:** Modern grids contain an increasing number of non-linear grid devices that are accurately modeled only in the time domain. Performing an accurate steady-state analysis with such models requires a transient simulation to infinite (sufficiently long) time, which can be computationally prohibitive. Power flow provides an efficient, but approximate steady state analysis using models based on a single nominal frequency, which fails to represent the true steady-state. We present a new method for efficiently analyzing the steady state response using traditional transient models that is inspired by harmonic balance methods. Rather than solving the underlying ODE by discretizing time, our method iterates on the entire waveform to find an accurate time domain waveform that captures the steady-state dynamics for all three phases. This presents a novel, efficient methodology for accurately studying the steady-state of the power grid. We introduce the concept by studying the steady state of a 14-bus system under various scenarios and highlight the difference between the steady-states achieved through power-flow and our method that uses EMT models.

## 1. Introduction
Steady-state analysis is the backbone of operating and planning the power grid. It mainly offers an insight into the state the grid settles into after an event in the network. Determining the true steady-state is often computationally difficult since it involves taking the electromagnetic transient (EMT) response to infinite time in theory, which is until steady-state convergence in practice. Most steady state analyses of the grid are based on an approximate frequency-domain based method known as power flow. However, with the addition of newer nonlinear devices that are accurately modeled in the time domain and capable of injecting harmonics, the assumptions made in power-flow cannot be justified and that solution is diverging from reality.

One of the biggest discrepancies in modern power system analysis is the inconsistency between power flow and transient models. Power flow was intended to represent the steady-state at the nominal frequency; however, device models in power flow are incompatible with their transient counterpart. Many complex devices with numerous controls are distilled into two valued models in power flow (often PQ or PV models) and taken only at the single nominal frequency. While the assumptions are justifiable for simple devices, today, with the advent of new control schemes such as frequency-based control and inverter-based devices, we see discrepancies between power flow solutions and the true steady-state. Additionally, control systems based on frequency or balancing the three-phases are often ignored in power-flow due to the shortcomings in the analysis. Previous works have developed realistic power flow models by either incorporating frequency as a variable [1], defining all three-phases [2], or creating high-level models to capture control schemes [3,4]. However, there remains an underlying inconsistency with reality.

It’s generally regarded that for a more accurate analysis, power systems engineers turn to electromagnetic transient simulations (EMT) [5]. EMT uses dynamic models to accurately determine behavior incurred from the nonlinear devices and, unlike power flow, captures the effect of all control schemes. However, EMT uses a multistep integration method that is inefficient in larger systems where a wide range of time-constants constricts the simulation to take small time-steps for many iterations [5]. This becomes especially computationally prohibitive in simulating the steady-state when required to take small time-steps.

For this reason, power flow is more often used to simulate the steady-state since it can be efficiently solved within operational time limits. There has been a lot of effort in improving EMT simulation speed by creating adaptive time-steps [6], using dedicated hardware systems with RTDS [7], or decoupling the system to facilitate solving in parallel [8]. While these methods have improved transient analysis, they have not shown significant enough improvement to replace power-flow. As a compromise, engineers have developed transient stability analysis tools (or dynamic analysis) that simulate transient effects while making similar assumptions to power-flow, such as assuming a balanced, constant impedance transmission network [9].

In this work, we develop a new methodology for time domain steady state (TDSS) to efficiently solve for the steady-state using EMT models. The time-domain steady-state method solves for an accurate steady-state consistent network, represented now as a linear N-port model, is a collection of transmission lines and transformers that are modeled either using lumped parameter models (such as pi model) [5], or distributed models [5].

For example, we can consider a 2-bus network with a generator on bus 1 and load on bus 2 as shown in Fig. 2. We can visualize the network as the linear transmission elements in the blue box and each non-linear device in a red box as shown. Importantly, we have not modified the network, but are just visualizing it in this way.

### 2.1. Traditional EMT analysis
The time-domain steady-state method solves for an accurate steady-state consistent