## Electromechanical Transient Modeling of Modular Multilevel Converter Based Multi-Terminal HVDC Systems
Sheng Liu, Zheng Xu, Member, IEEE, Wen Hua, Geng Tang, and Yinglin Xue, Student Member, IEEE

### Abstract
This paper studies the techniques for modeling modular multilevel converter (MMC) based multi-terminal HVDC (MTDC) systems in the electromechanical transient mode. Firstly, the mathematical model of the MMC and its corresponding equivalent circuit are established, which are similar to those of the two level converters. Then, a power flow calculation method for AC/DC systems containing MMC-MTDC systems is developed. Two dynamic models for MMC-MTDC systems are developed in the paper. One is the detailed model, taking into account of the AC side circuit, the inner controllers, the modulation strategies, the outer controllers and the MTDC circuit. The other is the simplified model, which only reserves the outer controllers and partial dynamics of the MTDC circuit based on a quantitative analysis of the detailed model’s dynamic processes, and it can be used in electromechanical transient simulation with a larger step size. Both the detailed and the simplified models are implemented on PSS/E and compared with the accurate electromagnetic transient models on PSCAD in a four terminal MMC-MTDC system; the result proves the validity of the developed models. Lastly, a stability study of a modified New England 39-bus system is executed, and the result shows that the AC fault can be isolated well in an MMC-MTDC asynchronously connected AC grid.

### Index Terms
Electromagnetic transient, electromechanical transient, modeling, modular multilevel converter, multi-terminal HVDC (MTDC), simplified model.

## I. INTRODUCTION
With the rapid development of high-voltage, high-power and full-controlled power electronic devices, voltage source converter based high voltage direct current (VSC-HVDC) systems have become an attractive innovation for their immunity against commutation failure and relatively easy extension to multi-terminal (MTDC) configurations. There has been a variety of topologies for VSC, and the modular multilevel converter (MMC), due to its low switching-frequency, low losses, small harmonic components and other benefits [1]–[4], is gaining increasing attention.

Manuscript received September 07, 2012; revised January 23, 2013, April 11, 2013, and June 08, 2013; accepted August 06, 2013. Date of publication August 30, 2013; date of current version December 16, 2013. This work was supported by the National High Technology Research and Development Program of China under Project 2012AA050205. Paper no. TPWRS-01035-2012.

S. Liu, Z. Xu, G. Tang, and Y. Xue are with the Department of Electrical Engineering, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310027, Zhejiang, China (e-mail: lszju@zju.edu.cn; xuzheng007@zju.edu.cn; tanggeng7@zju.edu.cn; yinglinxue@gmail.com).

W. Hua is with the Zhejiang Electric Power Corporation Research Institute,

MMC-MTDCs are regarded as grid shock absorbers. Although there is no MMC-MTDC system in practice at present, several MMC-MTDC projects are being designed in China. Therefore, studying the interaction between MMC-MTDC systems and AC systems has become an important task. However, before this can be done, a valid model of the MMC-MTDC system needs to be developed at first.

Research in the field of MMC modeling and control has become more and more active and some significant modeling approaches have been proposed [5]–[10]. A continuous model to describe the operation of the MMC system was derived and the principle allowing the control of the total energy and the balance between the upper and lower arm of a phase was presented in [5]. Furthermore, [6] evaluates four control methods for the MMC together with an experimental comparison. Reference [7] develops a comprehensive mathematical model based on the negative and positive sequence decomposition technique. For modeling the switching behavior of the power electronic devices in MMC-MTDC systems, simulation in electromagnetic transient mode is a convenient method, which can study the dynamic behavior of the MMC accurately [9]–[11]. Based on the electromagnetic transient simulation, different control strategies for VSC-MTDCs [12]–[15] and applications of the VSC-MTDCs in wind farms [16], [17] have been studied. Moreover, there was a breakthrough on the efficient modeling of MMC in the electromagnetic transient simulation mode, which significantly increases the simulation speed and makes it possible to simulate an MMC-MTDC system even if the converters contain hundreds of submodules (SM) [9].

However, electromagnetic transient simulation is still not suitable for studying large-scale systems at present. To study the stability of large-scale AC/DC systems containing MMC-MTDC systems, the electromechanical transient simulation is preferred. Therefore, the MMC-MTDC model suitable for electromechanical transient simulation is necessary and still needs further studies. Several steady-state VSC-MTDC models for power flow analysis were proposed [18], [19]. And a generalized dynamic VSC-MTDC model for power system stability studies has been derived and implemented on MatDyn [20], [21], which presented a comprehensive analysis for the electromechanical transient modeling of the VSC-MTDC. Furthermore, based on the generalized dynamic model, a distributed DC voltage control strategy was proposed and tested [22]. The generalized dynamic model was derived based on the 2-level VSC. Though the MMC and the 2-level VSC ar