Received: 5 July 2021 | Revised: 6 August 2021 | Accepted: 15 August 2021  
DOI: 10.1049/gtd2.12282  
IET Generation, Transmission & Distribution

# Electromechanical transient modelling and application of modular multilevel converter with embedded energy storage

**Zheyang Yu**, **Zheren Zhang**, **Zheng Xu**  
College of Electric Engineering, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province, China

**Correspondence**  
Zheren Zhang, No. 38 Zheda Road, Hangzhou 310027, Zhejiang Province, China.  
Email: 3071001296zhang@zju.edu.cn

**Abstract**  
This paper studies the electromechanical transient modelling techniques of the modified modular multilevel converter (MMC), named active MMC, which is equipped with embedded energy storage in submodules. Firstly, the mathematical model of the active MMC and its equivalent circuits at the AC and DC sides are established. Then, the control scheme of active MMC that focus on the cooperation of the MMC converter and the energy storage submodules is illustrated. The proposed electromechanical transient model are implemented on PSS/E and compared with the electromagnetic transient model on PSCAD in a two terminal active MMC sytem; the results of the active MMC system under AC and DC fault prove the validity of the proposed model. Lastly, stability studies of the practical system are carried out, and the simulation results prove the improvement by the application of the active MMC on the rotor angle stability and frequency stability.

## 1 INTRODUCTION

The long geographical distance between the energy base and large load center is a common scenario in a modern power grid, which needs the bulk power transmission over a long distance. For instance, the Chinese power grid takes a west to east power transmission stratagem to solve the problem that energy resources are mainly distributed in the west while the load centers are located in the east. Facing the requirement of carbon neutralization in China [1], the demand for long-distance bulk power transmission power will keep increasing because of the abundant renewable energy sources in the Western China.

The high voltage direct current (HVDC) transmission is an effective way to achieve long-distance bulk power transmission due to its high economy and reliability. With the development of the power electronics technology, the modular multilevel converter-based high voltage direct current (MMC-HVDC) has been applied in practical projects such as the Wudongde project and the Zhangbei project. The MMC-HVDC has shown great potential thanks to its superior performance compared with the line-commutated converter-based HVDC (LCC-HVDC) [2, 3]. The MMC-HVDC is also regarded as the grid shock absorber because of its excellent fault ride through capability and operation characteristics compared with the conventional LCC-HVDC. However, there exists an active power coupling between the AC and the DC sides of the MMC-HVDC, since the MMC-HVDC is incapable of storing energy extensively. Thus, the power disturbance caused by fault will affect both the connected AC systems and the MMC-HVDC: (1) The fault occuring in one AC grid may transmit to another AC grid through the MMC-HVDC system even though these AC grids are asynchronous [4]; (2) The fault occurs in MMC-HVDC, such as the DC line fault will certainly influence the connected AC system [5–7]. To make full use of the grid shock absorber function of MMC-HVDC, a new MMC-HVDC which achieves a greater degree of AC/DC system decoupling is needed.

Nowadays, the energy storage system has been widely concerned for its flexible output power adjustment capability [8–10]. Due to the modularity and scalability of MMC system, it is a natural idea to integrate energy storage into MMC system. The topology, modelling, modulation and control system of MMC with embedded energy storage have been extensively studied. The most commonly used topology is a bi-directional DC-DC converter to integrate the energy storage system (ESS) to the MMC submodule (SM) for the purpose of satisfying the incompatibility of the voltage of SM capacitor with batteries (ultra-capacitors) and avoiding the influence of fluctuation voltage of SM capacitor [11–14]. The DC-DC converter is mostly controlled by an internal current controller, together with an outer-loop controller [15–17]. Other additional controllers are studied in [18–20], such as state-of-charge (SOC) controller, the DC power suppression controller, the harmonic currents controller etc. The application of MMC with embedded energy storage in medium-voltage electric drive as well as direct and indirect grid interfaces are discussed in [21–23].

Each phase unit of the MMC consists of the series connection of $N_{sm}$-cascaded SMs with embedded energy storage and one arm reactor $L$. The upper and lower arms in the same leg comprise a phase unit. $u_{rj}$ ($r = p, n$, represents the upper and lower arms; $j = a, b, c$, represents three phases) is the voltage of cascade SMs. $i_{rj}$ is the current of each arm. $U_{dc}$ and $i_{dc}$ represent voltage and current of the DC side. $L_P$ is the arm reactance, and $R_P$ is the equivalent resistance indicating the equivalent power