# Electromagnetic modeling of inductors in EMT-type software by three circuit-based methods
Sadegh Rahimi Pordanjani a, *, Jean Mahseredjian a, Mohammed Naïdjate b, Nicolas Bracikowski b, Mircea Fratila c, Afshin Rezaei-Zare d
a Polytechnique Montréal, Montreal, Canada
b University of Nantes, Nantes, France
c EDF-R&D, ERMES Department, Paris, France
d York University, Toronto, Canada
* Corresponding author. E-mail address: sadegh.rahimi-pordanjani@polymtl.ca (S.R. Pordanjani).

## Keywords
Electromagnetic transients, Inductor modeling, Magnetic circuits, Duality

## Abstract
Three distributed circuit-based approaches based on Hopkinson analogy, Buntenbach analogy and duality principle are proposed in this paper to provide a detailed electromagnetic model of an inductor. The proposed approaches can provide several important aspects of finite element method (FEM), such as detailed geometrical representation and incorporation of magnetic saturation. In comparison to FEM, which has numerous obstacles in studying a magnetic device in a large network, the proposed approaches can be implemented in electromagnetic transient (EMT)-type software and thus can simulate the magnetic devices in a large network. The three circuit-based methods are first compared to each other, and then a 2-D finite-element method is used to validate them.

## 1. Introduction
Magnetic devices including inductors, transformers, and electric machines are key components in the power system. However, they are challenging to model due to the nonlinear behavior of magnetic core materials and the complex geometries. These devices are usually modeled using circuit simulators and field solvers.

FEM [1] can represent magnetic devices in great detail, taking into account nonlinear behavior as well as geometrical complexities. However, because they lack power system components like transmission lines and circuit breakers, they can’t be used to examine a magnetic device in a large network. To deal with this challenge, field solvers and circuit-based solutions can be coupled. Two common ways are used to provide the coupling: direct and indirect [2]. The direct method solves both the field and circuit equations simultaneously (as an example, see [3]). This method, however, is not appropriate for large power networks because it lacks sufficient power component models. The indirect technique solves field and circuit equations separately while keeping them connected via coupling coefficients (see [4] as an example). Because indirect methods use circuit simulators, they are able to consider the influence of large networks with various types of power components on the magnetic device, which is not possible with direct methods. However, since indirect methods require numerous iterations between the field and circuit equations, they take a long time to compute and also have numerical delays. Both coupling-based systems can be extremely accurate, but they have significant drawbacks when it comes to implementation, such as long computation times and a variety of numerical problems. Additionally, when studying the magnetic devices in power systems, analysts prefer circuit-based models that are compatible with circuit simulation software like EMT-type tools. However, as discussed below, existing circuit-based techniques are not as accurate as FEM.

Circuit simulation software currently uses lumped models, which have a limited number of circuit components to account for the flux paths of magnetic devices. These models have the advantage of being computationally efficient, and they are sufficiently accurate for some analyses when full representation of magnetic flux paths and internal behaviors are not required. In these models, the equivalent components corresponding to the magnetic flux paths are estimated using analytical formulas by considering design data as input. These analytical formulas are nearly accurate in representing flux paths in the core, but not in representing the flux paths in the air, which are difficult to define. Thus, they are incapable of accurately accounting for leakage fluxes between winding turns or fluxes that flow outside the core during saturation or fringing fluxes in cases with air gaps. Two general approaches have been used in the literature to increase the accuracy in portraying flux paths. First, some studies have improved the analytical formulas by estimating the overall picture of flux paths and even defining new elements for more detailed consideration of fluxes. For example, in [5], the magnetic equivalent circuit (MEC) has been improved to account for fringing and leakage fluxes. While these studies have improved accuracy, they are not general and are based on assumptions that are only valid in specific situations. Second, in some magnetic device modeling approaches, test data is used to estimate the components. Topological transformer models [6, 7] are one type of such models, in which the leakage inductances are estimated using short-circuit test data. However, accessing test data for devices with multiple windings is difficult and such data is not usable for specific studies, such as internal winding faults.

accurately represents leakage inductances (short-circuit impedances) and saturation. However, in order to make the model capable of representing a wide range of frequency transients, including high-frequency ones, additional parameters such as eddy current losses, iron core losses, and capacitive coupling can be incorporated into the model, which will be discussed in more detail in later publications.

In this paper, we present a general methodology that, starting from the geometry mesh, allows obtaining the equivalent circuits for all three HBD-circuits. An inductor with and without air-gap is used as case of study. This paper explains how to build all circuits using already available elements in EMTP. The obtained results are compared to each other, and they are validated with a FEM solver [16].

## 2. Methodology
In this section, a single-phase shell-type inductor is investigated. It is

The lumped circuit-based models der