# Electromagnetic Transient Model Reconstruction of Generalized Power Transmission Lines Based on Time-Synchronized Waveform Measurements
**PABLO GOMEZ**, (Senior Member, IEEE)
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Western Michigan University, Kalamazoo, MI 49008, USA
e-mail: pablo.gomez@wmich.edu

With utmost respect and admiration, this article is dedicated to the memory of Prof. Hermann Dommel.

**ABSTRACT** Thanks to the novel technology of waveform measurement units (WMUs), it is now possible to record time-synchronized waveforms (synchro-waveforms) at different power system locations. Leveraging these new opportunities, this paper introduces a method for accurate wideband measurement-based reconstruction of single- and three-phase frequency-dependent transmission line models for electromagnetic transient (EMT) studies. This method also accommodates hybrid (overhead-underground) systems and longitudinal parameter variations (nonuniformities). A 2-port line model is generated across a broad frequency spectrum using WMU terminal recordings and the numerical Laplace transform. For single-phase uniform lines, one transient recording set is sufficient for model reconstruction; this extends to ideally transposed three-phase lines. For single-phase nonuniform and three-phase uniform and nonuniform untransposed lines, a minimum norm least-squares method is applied to solve an overdetermined system from multiple recordings with linearly independent responses. Simulated measurements from ATP (Alternative Transient Program) are used for three test cases: a three-phase balanced uniform line, a single-phase hybrid system, and a three-phase unbalanced nonuniform line. The reconstructed model responses are compared with ATP simulations, confirming the technique’s accuracy and robustness. Furthermore, the impact of practical signal conditions on reconstruction accuracy is analyzed in detail, including noise, resolution, and ratio and phase displacement errors from instrument transformers.

**INDEX TERMS** Black-box modeling, electromagnetic transients, Laplace transforms, two-port model reconstruction, synchro-waveforms, transmission line modeling, wideband.

## I. INTRODUCTION
Transmission line modeling for electromagnetic transient (EMT) analysis has reached an exceptional level of maturity. Existing line models are capable of introducing many aspects of their behavior, such as different geometrical and electrical configurations with diverse conductors’ dispositions, distributed nature of their parameters, frequency dependence, among other factors [1].

Notwithstanding the level of modeling detail currently achievable, several real-world situations that occur over the lifespan of a transmission line, and that are generally neglected by existing models, can reduce the line modeling accuracy when applied to practical studies, such as environmental and weather conditions (e.g., contamination, icing, seasonal variation of ground resistivity, vegetation encroachment); aging effects (e.g., material degradation, corrosion, increased sagging, decrease in connection integrity); mechanical stresses; system upgrades or modifications; or even partial or full damage.

On the other hand, EMT models of transmission lines are now deemed necessary to analyze power grids incorporating distributed generation (DG), even for studies traditionally reliant on phasor models [2]. This shift arises from the rapid dynamics of contemporary power electronic devices employed in the integration of DG, which operate across a broad frequency spectrum beyond the nominal frequency [3]. For example, research indicates that incorporating wideband frequency-dependent transmission line parameters can be critical for the accurate prediction of dynamic grid-converter interactions that can trigger transient instability [3], [4].

Considering the aforementioned challenges, a new modeling framework is necessary to complement existing analytical approaches used in commercial software tools to enable the study of wideband EMT interactions between transmission lines and other components in an accurate, realistic and adaptive manner.

Efforts have been made to derive transmission line models and/or their parameters from measurement data rather than relying solely on analytical derivations [5], [6], [7], [8], [9]. Such efforts have focused primarily on steady-state studies and fault detection, severely limiting their applicability to EMT analysis. Recent work from our group has used terminal measurements to estimate the parameters of uniform overhead transmission lines over a wide frequency range [10], [11].

On the other hand, measurement-based approaches for frequency-dependent black-box modeling have been proposed for transformers [12], and more recently for shie

Exploring the opportunities lying ahead with the deployment of WMUs, and expanding upon our preliminary work that proposed a transmission line parameter estimation approach from transient measurements [10], [11], as well as a similar reconstruction approach applied to power-electronic converters [23], [24], [25], our present paper aims to contribute to the state of the art on transmission line modeling by establishing a novel and general methodology for the use of WMU-based terminal measurements for the reconstruction of wideband line models. Our methodology can consider single- and three-phase systems, as well as hybrid line-cable topologies and systems with arbitrary variation of parameters along their length.

This paper is organized as follows: Section II describes the mathematical methodology for transmission line model reconstruction for different line configurations. Section III shows the application of the proposed methodology in three different cases with diverse levels of complexity. Section IV discusses the effect of practical measurement factors, such as sampling resolution and signal noise, and describes future steps to be followed for further evaluation and practical implementation of the proposed methodology. Section V provides concluding remarks of this paper. An Appendix is also