Electromagnetic transient studies of large distribution systems using frequency domain modeling methods and network reduction techniques

Ghassan Bilal a,b, Pablo Gomez a,*, Reynaldo Salcedo c, Juan M. Villanueva-Ramirez a
a Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Western Michigan University, 1903 W Michigan Ave., Kalamazoo, MI 49008, USA
b University of Technology, Baghdad, Iraq
c Massachusetts Institute of Technology: Lincoln Laboratory, 244 Wood St, Lexington, MA 02421, USA

* Corresponding author. E-mail address: pablo.gomez@wmich.edu (P. Gomez).

## Abstract

This paper presents the practical application of frequency domain methods to perform detailed electromagnetic transient analysis on very large multi-phase power distribution networks. The proposed technique demonstrates substantial computational gain offering an attractive complement or alternative to widely available time domain tools. This work provides modeling guidance and procedures to derive the system matrix, perform system reduction using network equivalent techniques, and obtain the time domain response. The basic network elements include lumped and distributed parameter lines, transformers, circuit breakers, sources, and loads. In-depth methodology verification confirms great agreement for steady-state and transient simulations when compared with results from ATP/EMTP for two well-known IEEE test feeders (13-bus and 34-bus). Moreover, substantial testing using two large-scale three phase power systems, the IEEE 123-bus and a synthetic 1188-node system emulating a densely meshed urban distribution network, confirm the accuracy of implementing network reduction to solve large networks. The flexibility and adaptability of the proposed methodology can provide considerable time savings to utility companies and engineering firms assessing system wide transients resulting from symmetrical and unsymmetrical faults, network upgrades, and switching schemes.

## 1. Introduction

Electromagnetic transient (EMT) studies provide great insight into expected power system overvoltages and overcurrents resulting from lightning phenomena, switching operations and fault conditions. Time domain (TD) and frequency domain (FD) methods facilitate the analysis of EMT. These approaches have specific capabilities and limitations complementing each other. FD methods are known for higher accuracy and simplicity when dealing with distributed and/or frequency-dependent parameters, while TD methods are considered better suited for nonlinear time varying conditions and real time simulation [1–3].

The most common and mature TD technique is based on nodal network analysis and the trapezoidal rule of integration. Several software packages use this solution approach including ATP/EMTP [4], PSCAD [5], and EMTP-RV [6]. These tools are well-known and respected in industry, given the large amount of components readily available. On the other hand, FD methods represent network elements and topology in the frequency domain, avoiding the rational-fitting numerical approximations required in TD solutions [2]. In addition, FD methods offer outstanding computational simplicity by transforming systems based on integro-differential equations and convolution terms into algebraic equations. The FD solution of these expressions, usually in the form of voltages and/or currents, is then converted into the time domain using a frequency-time transformation (e.g. Fourier, Laplace, Z-transform, etc.) [2].

The high accuracy of FD methods complements TD tools for validation of new or improved TD based models and algorithms. In many cases, FD methods serve as a standalone alternative to TD for straightforward development and verification of new modeling techniques. Furthermore, modern FD techniques are able to accommodate nonlinear and time varying conditions, facilitating simulations of switching operations as well as introduction of surge arresters, ferromagnetic saturation, and other nonlinear phenomena [7–9]. At the moment, tools based on FD methods are more purpose-specific than TD tools [2]. However, FD methods provide an attractive complement or alternative to TD methods for those seeking high accuracy tools for detailed analysis, component design, model validation, among other applications [7–22]. Thus, the use of FD methods for EMT studies is gaining significant popularity within academic and industrial research communities.

This paper introduces the application of FD methods for transient analysis in a very large three-phase distribution network, representative of typical urban area power distribution systems. This large-scale application of an FD method for electromagnetic transient analysis is completely novel and aimed at encouraging the application of such technique by utilities and academia as a powerful alternative to existing tools for transient analysis. For that purpose, the basic methodology and guidelines for FD modeling of the common power system components, such as overhead and underground distribution lines, transformers and circuit breakers, are described in detail, as well as a general approach for network construction, reduction and solution. Other components not described in this paper, such as motors and generators [21,39], field-excited lines and towers [40], and grounding systems [41], can be analyzed using the proposed methodology starting from a 2-port model in the Laplace domain.

Network construction applies multiphase nodal analysis defining the complete system admittance matrix from the admittance model of each power element. The FD approach implements Kron’s reduction [23] to partition the complete system admittance matrix preserving relevant nodes. Network solution involves computing the nodal voltages from the admittance matrix model of the complete or reduced system, and transforming resulting voltages to time domain using Numerical Laplace transform (NLT). The NLT is chosen from a variety of numerical frequency-time transformation tools given its demonstrated accuracy, versatility, robustness, and very high computational efficiency [24,25].

This paper verifies and demonstrates the methodology using well-known IEEE test feeders (13-bus, 34-bus, 123-bus) [26,27], as well as a synthetic three phase 1188-node system emulating a densely meshed urban distribution