# Electromechanical Transient Modeling of the Low-Frequency AC System With Modular Multilevel Matrix Converter Stations
**Zheyang Yu, Zheren Zhang, Member, IEEE, and Zheng Xu, Fellow, IEEE**

**Abstract**—This paper studies the electromechanical transient modeling of a low-frequency AC (LFAC) system with modular multilevel matrix converter (M3C) stations. Firstly, the mathematical model of the M3C and its equivalent circuits are established. Then, an iterative power flow calculation algorithm for AC systems integrated with the M3C-LFAC system is developed. The dynamic model of the M3C for electromechanical transient simulation is studied and implemented in PSS/E. Based on a test system consisting of two asynchronous AC systems with an embedded M3C-LFAC system, comparisons between the electromechanical transient simulation results from PSS/E and the electromagnetic transient simulation results from PSCAD are conducted. The results from PSS/E and PSCAD coincide with each other well, and the validity of the established electromechanical transient model is proved. Lastly, a stability study of a modified New England 39-bus system with an embedded M3C-LFAC system is executed, and the characteristics of the M3C-LFAC system are presented.

**Index Terms**—Electromechanical transient modeling, power flow calculation, power system stability, modular multilevel matrix converter, low-frequency AC.

Manuscript received 16 June 2022; revised 17 October 2022 and 7 January 2023; accepted 9 January 2023. Date of publication 13 January 2023; date of current version 26 December 2023. Paper no. TPWRS-00884-2022. (Corresponding author: Zheren Zhang.)
The authors are with the College of Electrical Engineering, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310027, China (e-mail: 906267954@qq.com; 3071001296zhang@zju.edu.cn; xuzheng007@zju.edu.cn).
Color versions of one or more figures in this article are available at https://doi.org/10.1109/TPWRS.2023.3236819.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TPWRS.2023.3236819

## I. INTRODUCTION
In the modern electrical power system, high voltage AC (HVAC) and high voltage DC (HVDC) are two major options for power transmission. Due to the convenience and the economic efficiency in system extension, the backbone networks of the regional power systems are mostly formed by HVAC. In the history of power transmission, many frequencies were used. However, keeping synchronous is required for all electric equipment connected in one AC system. Since the rated frequency is an important parameter in electric devices design, a unified frequency is convenient both for system operator and equipment manufacturer. Up till now, most AC systems are operated in 50 Hz or 60 Hz. However, the HVAC transmission capacity is limited by the angle stability or the capacitive current for overhead line transmission or submarine cable transmission [1]. The maximal transmission power is limited by the angle stability rather than the thermal stability of the transmission line, which influences the cost of the HVAC scheme for long-distance power transmission. The above problems can be avoided if the HVDC scheme is adopted, and the maximal transmission power of the HVDC transmission system is determined by the thermal stability of the transmission line [2]. Although the HVDC converter stations are costly, the HVDC scheme has economic benefits in long-distance power transmission. However, for multi-terminal HVDC systems or HVDC grids, the DC circuit breakers are needed, which are very costly and not technically mature.

The LFAC scheme is a compromise between the HVDC scheme and the conventional HVAC scheme. Compared to the conventional HVAC scheme, the transmission capacity and angle stability can be improved in the LFAC scheme due to the lower operation frequency [1], [3]. Compared to the HVDC scheme, the LFAC scheme has the advantages such as the convenience for multi-terminal connection, the low-cost and high-maturity AC circuit breakers. Thus, the LFAC scheme is a competitive scheme in some practical engineering scenarios, especially in long-distance bulk power transmission and offshore wind farm integration [4].

It should be noted that all electric equipment operating in LFAC systems need to be redesigned according to the operating frequency [5]. In addition, frequency converters are needed for connecting AC systems of different frequencies. In the early LFAC scheme, the operation frequency is selected as 1/3 of the power frequency (16.7/20 Hz) for the employment of cycloconverter as the AC/AC converter [3]. However, the optimal operating frequency for the LFAC system is not always 1/3 of the power frequency [6], [7]. Thus, AC/AC converters that can realize flexible frequency control of the LFAC system are required.

Because of the operation flexibility and the design scalability, the modular multilevel cascaded converter (MMCC) has been widely used in power systems [8]. Classified from the circuit configuration, the single-star bridges cells (SSBC), the double-star bridge cells (DSBC) and the triple-star bridge cells (TSBC) can realize a three-port, five-port and nine-port circuits, respectively [9]. In the power grid application, STATCOM, back to back HVDC (BTB HVDC) and M3C can be realized by SSBC, DSBC and TSBC correspondingly. Power grid applications such as STATCOM and BTB-HVDC have been employed extensively [10], [11], [12], [13], [14].

Up till now, the application of the M3C in the transmission grid is limited. The M3C can operate as a frequency converter which realizes a direct AC/AC c