# Electromagnetic Transient (EMT) Simulation Algorithms for Evaluation of Large-Scale Extreme Fast Charging Systems (T&D Models)

**Suman Debnath**, Senior Member, IEEE, and **Jongchan Choi**, Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—Simulation of high-fidelity models of extreme fast charging (XFC) systems and large-area power grids with many XFCs can be time consuming in traditional simulators. Traditional simulators use a single method of discretization for all the components that results in imposing a large computational burden of inverting a large matrix as well as increased computations related to single method of discretization (that is typically a trapezoidal method). To overcome the problem of simulating large-area power grids with many XFCs, in this paper, advanced numerical simulation algorithms are applied for the first time together to reduce the dimension of matrix inversion. The algorithms include numerical stiffness-based segregation, time constant-based segregation, clustering and aggregation on differential algebraic equations (DAEs), and multi-order integration approaches. These algorithms apply multiple discretization algorithms rather than a single discretization algorithm that further reduces the computational burden. The approaches mentioned here have resulted in speed-up of up to 18x in the simulation of a single distribution system with 15 XFCs and of up to 271x in the simulation of a transmission-distribution system with 300 XFCs in multiple distribution feeders with respect to conventional simulators (like power systems computer aided design [PSCAD]).

**Index Terms**—Electromagnetic transient simulation, EMT, electric vehicle chargers, EV chargers, extreme fast charging, XFC, transmission-distribution grids.

*Manuscript received 20 September 2021; revised 1 February 2022, 3 May 2022, and 4 August 2022; accepted 4 September 2022. Date of publication 10 October 2022; date of current version 21 August 2023. This work was supported by the Laboratory Directed Research and Development Program of Oak Ridge National Laboratory, managed by UT-Battelle, LLC, with the U.S. Department of Energy, under Contract DE-AC05-00OR22725. This manuscript has been authored by UT-Battelle, LLC under Contract No. DE-AC05-00OR22725 with the U.S. Department of Energy. The United States Government retains and the publisher, by accepting the article for publication, acknowledges that the United States Government retains a non-exclusive, paidup, irrevocable, world-wide license to publish or reproduce the published form of this manuscript, or allow others to do so, for United States Government purposes. The Department of Energy will provide public access to these results of federally sponsored research in accordance with the DOE Public Access Plan (http://energy.gov/downloads/doe-public-access-plan). Paper no. TPWRS-01502-2021. (Corresponding author: Suman Debnath.)*

The authors are with the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Knoxville, TN 37932 USA (e-mail: suman2k42000@gmail.com; choij1@ornl.gov).

## I. INTRODUCTION

The trend towards increased electrification of transportation is expected to impose increased power electronics-based loads on the power grid. These loads are increasing in power rating as the transition happens from the traditional L1/L2 chargers (in range of 10s kW) to extreme fast chargers (XFCs) that can charge electric vehicles (EVs) within 10 minutes. The typical range of the XFCs can be 400 kW or higher (e.g., 1 MW). The higher power range is needed to be delivered to medium or heavy duty EVs to charge the batteries in less than 30 minutes [1].

With greater penetration of power electronics based resources in the grid, it is anticipated that high-fidelity electromagnetic transient (EMT) dynamic models of the power grid will be necessary. This requirement has been raised by the analyses of recent events in California [2], [3], [4]. The recent events (unbalanced faults on the power grid during fire incidents) in California led to utility-scale photovoltaic (PV) plants, and distributed energy resources (DERs) in some cases like in [4], to disconnect from the power grid. The latter case of DERs disconnecting from the grid highlighted the need for detailed transmission-distribution grid models. As XFCs are integrated into the grid, high-fidelity EMT dynamic models of transmission-distribution grids with XFCs are needed. This includes use of switched system models to represent power electronics to capture the high-frequency transients observed during these faults. The high-frequency transients have led to disconnections. However, the simulation of such models is extremely time consuming. For example, the simulation of a small portion of the power grid in Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) or in Australian Energy Market Operator (AEMO) regions have required 2 − 3 hours [5], [6], [7]. This compares to the order of half hour needed to simulate much larger grids like Western Interconnection (WI) grid in transient stability simulators. This deficiency highlights the need for advanced simulation algorithms in EMT simulators to speed-up simulations, while preserving the accuracy of simulations. The deficiencies in existing simulators to study future power grids with high-penetration of power electronics have also been discussed in detail in [7]. Some of the deficiencies include the homogeneous use of numerical simulation algorithms in the entire system being simulated. The homogeneous use of numerical simulation algorithms includes the use of one discretization algorithm (like the trapezoidal method) for the entire system, the inversion of single matrix upon discretization for the entire system, among others. The increased presence of power electronics in the power grid and the corresponding unique characteristics like switched system (present in power electronics) has not been considered while designing the existing simulators. The deficiencies indicate the need for