# Electromagnetic disturbances in gas-insulated substations and VFT calculations
Akihiro Ametani ∗, Haoyan Xue, Masashi Natsui, Jean Mahseredjian
*Ecole Polytechnique Montreal, Quebec H3C 3A7, Canada*

∗ Corresponding author. E-mail address: aametani@mail.doshisha.ac.jp (A. Ametani).

**Abstract**
This paper is focused on the oscillating frequencies of very-fast transients (VFTs) generated by disconnector and circuit breaker operations in gas-insulated substations (GISs) related to electromagnetic disturbances (EMDs). Test results of the VFT amplitudes and oscillating frequencies are summarized, and the measured results have shown that there is no significant difference of the frequencies in the high-voltage main circuits and the low-voltage control circuits in the GISs. Modeling of GIS elements for VFT simulations by EMT-type software are explained, and simulation examples are demonstrated in comparison with test results. Also, FDTD (finite-difference time-domain) computations are performed, and the calculated results are compared with EMTP simulation results. If proper modeling is adopted, EMTP and FDTD results show a reasonable agreement.

**Keywords:** VFT, GIS, Electromagnetic disturbance, High frequency, EMTP, FDTD

## 1. Introduction
It is well-known that lightning strikes to a transmission tower nearby a substation and switching operations in a gas-insulated substation (GIS) produce high frequency surges. The dominant frequency components involved in the lightning surge are, in general, lower than 1 MHz. The switching surges due to disconnector (DS) or circuit breaker (CB) operation in the GIS contain the frequency components from some MHz up to more than 100 MHz, and are called “very fast transient (VFT)” or “very fast transient over-voltage (VFTO)” [1–3]. To investigate the VTF, a number of field and laboratory tests have been carried out [4–24]. Also, computer simulations of the VFT were performed, and modeling methods were investigated [25–31]. The measured and simulation results show that the VFT over-voltage reaches even 4 pu which becomes very important especially in a ultra-high-voltage (UHV) system because of a comparatively lower insulation level [1–3,19–21]. Various methods to damp the over-voltage have been proposed and the effectiveness are shown [7,12,23]. However, the oscillating frequency of the VFT is not much affected by the methods.

It has been pointed out that the high frequency components of the VFT are a main cause of electromagnetic disturbances (EMDs) in GIS control circuits [10,12,14–18,22,32–35].

This paper is focused on VFTs from the viewpoint of electromagnetic disturbances (EMDs). In Section 2, the voltage amplitudes and oscillating frequencies of the VFTs are summarized based on field and laboratory tests described in [4–24]. The measured results are categorized in the high-voltage main circuit of GISs, in the metallic enclosures and in the low-voltage control circuits. Section 3 explains modeling of GIS elements for VFT simulations by existing transmission line (TL) approaches, i.e. EMT-type software [36–39]. Then, calculated examples are demonstrated including a comparison with test results. In Section 4, an FDTD (finite-difference time-domain method [40,41]) computation is performed, and computed results are compared with EMTP results. Section 5 summarizes the investigated results in this paper.

## 2. Frequencies
Table 1 summarizes the measured results of the amplitudes and frequencies of VFTs. In the table, references, the rated voltage of GISs, VFT frequency and amplitude are shown. In (a) and (b), the amplitude is given by pu (per unit), while in (c) it is given by a peak-to-peak voltage.

It is observed in Table 1(a) that the VFT frequencies in UHV GISs are lower than those in lower voltage GISs except those given by Ref. [19]. Only few references show measured results of the VFT voltages and frequencies on the metallic enclosure (duct, tank or pipe) of the GISs. The measured voltages range from 0.1 to 0.7 pu in Table 1(b), because the pipe voltage is determined by mutual surge

**Table 1**
Summary of measured frequency and amplitude of VFTOs in GIS.

| Ref. no | [5,6,13] | [10] | [23] | [24] | [12] |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **(a) High-voltage main circuit** | | | | | |
| Rated [kV] | 500/550 | 550 | 500 | 500 | 110/800 |
| Frequency [MHz] | 1–140 | 10–50 | 8–100 | 5–60 | 5–25 |
| Voltage [pu] | 1.2–3.0 | 2.7 | – | – | 1.2–1.7 |
| Ref. no | [7] | [19] | [20] | [21] | – |
| Rated [kV] | UHV | 1100 | 1100 | 1100 | – |
| Frequency [MHz] | 1–5 | 2–31 | 0.25–2 | 8–118 | – |
| Voltage [pu | | | | | |