# Electromagnetic transient modeling of grounding electrodes buried in frequency dependent soil with variable water content

**Bamdad Salarieh**$^{a,b}$, **H.M. Jeewantha De Silva**$^{b}$, **Behzad Kordi**$^{*,a}$

$^{a}$ Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada R3T 5V6
$^{b}$ Manitoba Hydro International, Winnipeg, Manitoba R3P 1A3, Canada

$^{*}$ Corresponding author.
E-mail addresses: bsalarieh@mhi.ca (B. Salarieh), jeewantha@mhi.ca (H.M.J. De Silva), behzad.kordi@umanitoba.ca (B. Kordi).

**Keywords:** Frequency dependence of soil, Power system transients, Grounding system, Lightning protection, Water content, Finite element analysis

**Abstract**
The increasing demand for electricity over the past few decades has been continuously urging for more reliable power systems. Power transmission line networks, due to their vast physical dimensions, are the most critical components of a complex power system concerning the direct lightning strike. Grounding systems are widely used to mitigate the transient overvoltages for the protection of electrical component and human safety. The goal of this paper is to investigate the effect of frequency dependence of soil electrical parameters on the performance of vertical and horizontal grounding electrodes subjected to direct lightning strike, considering a variable water content of soil. Four soil models that take into account the variation of soil water content are reviewed and compared. The numerical simulations are performed using a full-wave electromagnetic model based on the Finite Element Method (FEM) in the frequency range from 1 kHz to 5 MHz and applying different soil models with varying water content. Then, electromagnetic transient (EMT) compatible equivalent circuits of grounding electrodes are developed using Fast Relaxed Vector Fitting (FRVF). Typical first and subsequent return stroke current waveforms measured at two different locations are adopted. The results of this paper demonstrate the importance of considering the variation of soil water content in the transient response of grounding electrodes. Simulation results demonstrate that the frequency dependence of the soil parameters lead to a decrease of the potential rise of the grounding electrodes compared to the case where the soil parameters are assumed constant. The effect of soil water content on the grounding performance is also shown to be dependent on the soil type, value of soil water content, and length of electrode.

## 1. Introduction

Lightning is known to be a common cause of outage in power systems. It may result in damages to equipment, high repair costs, and loss of revenue to utility companies. Backflashovers (BFs) are the main cause of outages for lines of voltages below 500 kV due to a lightning [1]. Different approaches can be taken to address the backflashover problem, such as improving the critical flashover voltage of insulators, reducing grounding impedance, or installing surge arresters. The reduction of grounding impedance is an effective way to lower the amount of transient overvoltages and the backflashover rate (BFR) [2]. A grounding system consists of metallic conductors that provide a low-impedance path for the excessive transient current in the system to the ground. The grounding electrodes are oriented vertically and/or horizontally to direct the major part of the lightning surge current to the earth. An appropriate design of grounding systems plays a crucial rule in proper operation of power systems in the event of a lightning strike or system fault. Such a design has to ensure that the developed Ground Potential Rise (GPR) due to the current dissipated into ground is limited to a safe value.

An accurate model of grounding systems has to consider the frequency dependence of soil electrical parameters [3]. Considering the electrical resistivity $\rho$, relative permittivity $\varepsilon_r$, and relative permeability $\mu_r$ of soil, the first two parameters decrease considerably with the increase of frequency [4–7], whereas the last one is constant and similar to the relative magnetic permeability of air, which is equal to unity for most materials [8]. The effect of frequency dependence of soil parameters on the performance of grounding systems has been extensively investigated [9–16]. Different numerical methods have been used in the previous studies, such as Finite Element Method (FEM) [10,14], Method of Moments (MoM) [11], Finite Difference Time Domain (FDTD) [16], Partial Element Equivalent Circuit (PEEC) [15], and Hybrid Electromagnetic (HEM) [9,12,13]. The general effect of the frequency dependence of soil parameters is a considerable reduction in the magnitude of grounding impedance along with an increase of the capacitive effect, especially for soil with moderate or high values of resistivity (more than 600 $\Omega$m) [9].

The effect of soil water content on the frequency dependence of its parameters is considerable [4,5,17,18]. It was shown through measurements that the reduction of $\varepsilon_r$ with increasing frequency is more noticeable in wet than dry soil [17]. On the contrary, the increase of soil conductivity $\sigma = 1/\rho$ with frequency is significantly less. Although it is very common to consider the soil relative dielectric constant equal to 10 [19] or 20 [20], it has been shown that the variation of soil dielectric constant has a noticeable effect upon the hi