# ELECTROMAGNETIC TRANSIENT MODELING AND SIMULATION OF LARGE POWER SYSTEMS
## EMT Simulators for the Future Grid
Shaahin Filizadeh, Jean Belanger, Flavio Fernandez, Paul Forsyth, Jean Mahseredjian, Jesus Morales, and Genevieve Lietz

While simplified phasor modeling has proved adequate for the assessment of the transient stability of large-scale conventional power systems (i.e., those dominated by large synchronous machines), extensive research and practical experience have shown that doing so for large grids heavily reliant on inverter-based resources (IBRs) is not adequate. This is in part because IBRs use power electronic converters with switching frequencies in the kilohertz range, which calls for detailed models and advanced solution methods, and in part due to the diminishing system inertia that allows widespread impact from local dynamic events. Therefore, it has become necessary to conduct electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulations of more sophisticated and increasingly larger networks, reaching unprecedented numbers of nodes. There is a need for research, development, and innovation in terms of both solution algorithms and computational platforms to modernize EMT simulators so that they can meet the modeling demands of modern networks.

This article presents a number of such innovations that are being pursued by researchers, practicing engineers, and simulation software and hardware manufacturers. It also addresses future challenges and potential solutions as EMT simulators continue to evolve.

## Parallel and Fast Computation Methods in EMT Simulations
The basic principle of parallel computations in EMT-type solvers is based on the modeling of transmission lines (or cables). Instead of the classic pi-section model, it is possible to use the more accurate propagation delay-based model. Such a model creates a natural decoupling between the ends of the line and allows the formulation of a block-diagonal solution matrix. Each block (or subcircuit) can be solved on a separate processor and in parallel. Difficulties arise when the transmission line needed to split the network is short, thus forcing a small numerical integration time step smaller than the propagation delay. Another issue is the potential absence of delay-based transmission lines for network splitting. Other techniques, such as bordered block-diagonal matrices, can be used in such cases. It has been recently demonstrated that the compensation method can be applied successfully, even in the presence of nonlinear models. Another approach is that of the combined nodal and state-space analysis methods, which enables the splitting of networks at arbitrary locations. Further research is required to fully automate such methods and optimize the blocks for efficient utilization of processors, thus achieving the fastest computations possible with sparse matrix solvers.

Another crucial aspect of accelerating computations is the automatic initialization of network models for starting the time-domain computations. The objective is to reach steady-state conditions as soon as possible to avoid unnecessary transient periods that cannot be achieved perfectly from a power-flow solution. This also includes automatic initialization of synchronous generator controls. Difficulties arise in the presence of power electronic components or renewable energy resources (wind or photovoltaic power plants, for example). Special techniques must be used to accommodate converter circuits and force initial conditions found from power-flow solutions.

## Cosimulation of Power System Dynamics
Cosimulation is a modular simulation approach that has been widely used in many engineering fields. It consists of decomposing a complex problem into various subsystems that are solved individually. To compute the overall solution, the subsystems are then coupled via the exchange of simulation results at discrete time intervals. In general, the subsystems may have drastically different physical characteristics and may require various types of modeling methods or modeling in different domains.

The advantages of cosimulation arise from the individual solution of each subsystem and are primarily twofold. First, cosimulation allows for parallel computation of the subsystems and, therefore, could offer better overall computational performance in large-scale EMT simulation. Second, independent solvers with different degrees of modeling detail and different simulation step sizes can be used for each subsystem. The latter allows customization of modeling and solution methods for each subsystem to achieve an optimal balance between accuracy and computational intensity.

For instance, Figure 1 shows the combination of a detailed vendor-specific EMT model of a high-voltage direct current (HVdc) system, typically accounting for internal dynamics ranging from a few microseconds to a few milliseconds, coupled with a phasor-domain-type (PDT) model of the trans-