## EMT Model Boundary Determination Using Floquet Theory-based Participation Factors
Mahsa Sajjadi, Member, IEEE, Kai Sun, Fellow, IEEE, and Deepak Ramasubramanian, Senior Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—To accelerate electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulations for power systems with inverter-based resources (IBRs), this paper proposes a new approach for determining the EMT model boundary using Floquet theory-based participation factors (PFs). The approach can significantly reduce the computational burden of EMT simulation to focus on a localized area whose components highly participate in the dynamics of interest such as sub-synchronous oscillations (SSOs), while the rest of the grid is represented using a simple Norton equivalent. Floquet theory enables the calculation of participation factors over a single cycle of the system in an EMT model, where the vector field exhibits periodic behavior around the synchronous frequency. A data-driven method is also proposed for estimating participation factors directly from the system’s responses. The proposed EMT model boundary determination approach is first demonstrated on a two-area system and then validated on a 39-bus system with multiple IBRs.

**Index Terms**— Electromagnetic transient, EMT, Floquet theory, inverter-based resource, IBR, participation factor, power system simulation, sub-synchronous oscillation.

## I. INTRODUCTION
POWER systems with high penetration of inverter-based resources (IBRs) face new challenges in dynamic analysis, especially during phenomena such as sub-synchronous oscillations (SSOs), ride-through dynamics, and converter-induced stability issues. The electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation offers the detailed time-domain analysis needed to capture the fast and complex dynamics associated with IBRs. However, EMT simulations are computationally intensive, especially when applied to large-scale power systems. This makes it impractical to simulate the entire system using EMT models, leading to the need for boundary determination strategies that combine EMT modeling for critical zones with simplified models for less critical parts of the system. There have been numerous studies on hybrid EMT-phasor simulation, with most approaches using a predetermined EMT zone and mainly focusing on improving data exchange between the EMT the fault in the EMT zone, as discussed in [1]-[6]. While this method is simple, it lacks precision and a solid theoretical foundation. Another strategy, presented in [7], involves detailed modeling of HVDC converters using EMT while representing the AC network with a phasor model to capture the complex dynamics and rapid transients of HVDC systems accurately. This approach is simple, but it ignores the dynamic interaction between HVDC converters and AC network. In [8], it is recommended to include buses with significant harmonic distortion in the EMT zone, considering the system configuration and the disturbance being analyzed. This harmonic distortion criterion provides good accuracy in case of high distortion in the system; however, it cannot capture low-frequency dynamic issues. The approach in [9] uses voltage drops as a criterion for selecting buses to include in the EMT zone. A voltage drop is easy to measure and monitor, though this approach is heavily influenced by the specific fault, and it lacks depth in dynamic system interaction. Lastly, [10] suggests applying EMT models to regions with a low short-circuit ratio (SCR), a widely used method which focuses on critical areas prone to instability, However, it is primarily relevant when converters are present in the system and does not capture the critical parts of the network, such as key buses or branches that influence system dynamics. Each approach for EMT zone boundary determination suits specific system properties and simulation objectives. The components involved, the type of possible disturbances, and the intended trade-off between computational efficiency and simulation detail all influence the choice of approach. To add new insights into existing EMT boundary determination methods, particularly when capturing specific dynamic phenomena or an SSO mode is of interest, this paper presents a novel participation factor-based EMT boundary determination method using Floquet theory to identify and include critical elements—such as IBRs, generators, transmission lines, and other network components—within the EMT zone. Unlike hybrid EMT-phasor simulations, the proposed approach employs an EMT zone