# Equivalent Circuit Model of a Transmission Tower Considering a Lightning Struck Point and Cross-arms
Akifumi Yamanaka $^{a,*}$, Naoto Nagaoka $^{a}$, Yoshihiro Baba $^{a}$
$^{a}$ Doshisha University, 1-3 Miyakodani, Tatara, Kyotanabe, Kyoto, Japan

**Keywords:** Lightning, Transmission tower, EMT-type simulator, FDTD method, Back-flashover

**Abstract:** This paper studies voltages generated across the insulators of a vertical double-circuit transmission tower due to a lightning strike to a tip of the tower top cross-arm, and presents a circuit analysis model of the tower considering the cross-arms. When lightning strikes the tip of tower top cross-arm, insulator voltages on the lightning-struck side are higher than those on the other side. This is because the electromagnetic field is more intense on the struck-side and it is weakened on the other side. The voltage difference can have an effect on the back-flashover occurrence. Most of existing equivalent circuits of transmission tower cannot consider the difference of electromagnetic field or its resultant voltages depending on the side of lightning strike. Here, a new equivalent circuit model, which can consider the difference of voltages depending on the side of lightning strike, is proposed for electromagnetic transient simulators. The validity of the proposed equivalent circuit model is confirmed by comparing waveforms of insulator voltages computed using the FDTD method in this paper and those measured on an actual ultra-high voltage transmission tower in the past.

## 1. Introduction
Lightning strike to a transmission tower and resultant lightning overvoltages and currents can interrupt the operation of power systems. The reliable and economical countermeasures against lightning strikes should be prepared. Accurate and practical numerical models of power systems help to achieve the reasonable lightning protection or insulation design [1, 2].

Developments in both the numerical techniques and computational resources enable us to perform the three-dimensional numerical electromagnetic field analysis for lightning surges [3]. The methods do not need the quasi-TEM (transverse electromagnetic) mode assumption, which numerical circuit analysis by electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulators with single-dimension distributed-parameter line model is based on [4]. Thus, the field analysis methods are suitable for lightning transient studies in transmission systems, and various methods, namely, the finite-difference time-domain (FDTD) method, the method of Moments (MoM), the partial element equivalent circuit (PEEC) method, and hybrid electromagnetic model (HEM) have been employed [3]. Especially the FDTD method [5] has been applied to the practical back-flashover analysis of transmission systems taking advantage of its time-domain modeling and flexibility [3, 6, 7, 8, 9]. The method, however, requires much more computation resources and time than those the circuit analysis requires. The circuit analysis by EMT-type simulators can execute the statistical or iterative analysis speedily with various conditions including nonlinearities. Therefore, it enables the investigation of the probability of lightning faults and the proposal of the economical and effective strategy for reducing them [10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15]: for instance the installation of transmission line surge arresters. Accurate and reasonable modeling of the transmission tower further enhances the advantage and usefulness of the circuit analysis method.

In circuit analysis, transmission towers have been represented by a lossless short distributed-parameter line with surge impedances derived based on the electromagnetic field theory (e. g. [16]) or circuit theory (e. g. [17]), or the multistory tower model composed of four-cascaded line with damping RL circuits [18]. These models have given practical information for considering lightning protection of transmission systems as mentioned above. Further in the tower modeling for circuit analysis, a modification of the multistory tower model, a multistair tower model based on the circuit theory, and transmission tower and line models considering the TEM-mode formation process have been presented recently [19, 20, 21]. One of the remaining important factors in circuit modeling of the tower is consideration of cross-arms to analyze the lightning strike to the tip of tower top and resultant back-flashovers. The strike point and the presence of the tower cross-arms can be quite important in discussing characteristic of multiphase or concurrent back-flashovers [22], in addition to the characteristic of the tower itself.

In this paper, vertical double-circuit transmission towers of extra- and ultra-high voltage class (EHV/UHV) are studied. The electromagnetic field and resultant insulator voltages of a transmission tower due to a lightning strike to the tip of tower top cross-arm are discussed using the FDTD method. Then, a circuit analysis model considering the tower cross-arms is proposed. Finally, the validity of the proposed equivalent

## 2. Numerical electromagnetic field analysis
### 2.1. FDTD analysis model
In this paper, Virtual Surge Test Lab. (VSTL) developed by the Central Research Institute of Electric Power Industry (CRIEPI), is used for FDTD simulations [23,24]. Fig. 1 shows the FDTD analysis model of a 76-m high vertical double-circuit transmission tower. The FDTD analysis space of 600 × 600 × 400 m is uniformly divided into 1 × 1 × 1 m cubic