## Equivalent grid-following inverter-based generator model for ATP/ATPDraw simulations✩
M.B. Luchini a,∗, O.E. Batista a, F.V. Lopes b, R.L.A. Reis b, B.A. Souza c
a Department of Electrical Engineering, Federal University of Espírito Santo, Vitória, ES, Brazil
b Department of Electrical Engineering, Federal University of Paraiba, João Pessoa, PB, Brazil
c Department of Electrical Engineering, Federal University of Campina Grande, Campina Grande, PB, Brazil

**Keywords:** ATP, EMTP, Electromagnetic transients, Grid faults, IBR, Time-domain modeling

**ABSTRACT**
This paper presents an equivalent time-domain grid-following inverter-based generator model, which can be used in Electromagnetic Transients Programs (EMTP). It is developed in the Alternative Transients Program (ATP) using the ATPDraw graphical interface. A complete benchmark photovoltaic model available in ATP/ATPDraw environment is taken as reference to evaluate the proposed model under steady-state and fault scenarios. The obtained results showed that the proposed model is simpler and less time-consuming than the complete model, being capable of easily consider the implementation of different components/controls of Inverter-Based Resources (IBR) in EMTP. The settings used in the implemented control schemes proved to be effective, resulting in an average error of about 2.33% during fault conditions. Also, a reduction of about 70 % in the execution time was achieved when compared to the analyzed benchmark one, attesting its usefulness for power system studies with high presence of grid-following IBRs.

✩ The authors thank National Council for Scientific and Technological Development (CNPq) and Espírito Santo Research Foundation (Fapes) for the financial support. This work was also sponsored by the São Francisco Hydroelectric Company (Chesf) within the scope of the R&D project PD-0048-0317/2020.
∗ Corresponding author. E-mail addresses: matheus.luchini@edu.ufes.br (M.B. Luchini), oureste.batista@ufes.br (O.E. Batista), felipelopes@cear.ufpb.br (F.V. Lopes), raphael.leite@cear.ufpb.br (R.L.A. Reis), benemar@dee.ufcg.edu.br (B.A. Souza).

## 1. Introduction
Electrical power networks have experienced several changes due to the insertion of new generation technologies, among which both concentrated and distributed renewable resources such as wind and photovoltaic power plants stand out [1]. Some of these generations have been widely referenced to as Inverter-Based Resources (IBRs), since their interface with the grid is based on inverters. As a result, the IBR dynamic during faults or even during some normal operation conditions does not follow the well-known behavior of synchronous generators, posing difficulties on system protection and control applications [2].

Historically, most power flow and short-circuit simulation tools have been developed for steady-state evaluations in phasor-domain. Although these models allow the representation of most important features of traditional synchronous power systems, limitations have been found to emulate the dynamic behavior of IBRs [3], especially when faults or any other disturbances take place. Hence, detailed full models have been proposed for time-domain simulations, leading EMTP to gain importance in the context of IBR studies. However, as reported in [4,5], although full time-domain IBR models are realistic, they emulate switching components and their respective control schemes, resulting in complex and time/computational-consuming simulations. It has motivated developments in power system modeling area to obtain simplified, but representative IBR models.

The equivalent IBR models available in the literature are often phasor-based and consider only steady-state response [4,6,7]. This limits pre-operational and operational time-domain studies, since possible impacts of IBRs are not adequately emulated during transient events. Dynamic models can be found in the literature. However, they often disregard faulty conditions [8] or do not make comparisons in EMTP platforms for a better parameter adjustment, as reported in [9]. Moreover, the mentioned models are developed in computational programs which require paid licenses, and their implementation details are not fully provided, leading potential model users to face difficulties in reproducing the IBR models and their results. Also, the lack of information about the implementation and of explanations about ways to adapt the models to different scenarios is another limiting factor, especially when one desires to test different control strategies. In addition, most works do not even mention concerns about the computational burden of the simulations, which is becoming an important aspect as the penetration of IBRs in existing systems increase.

Considering the above-mentioned context, this paper proposes an equivalent grid-following IBR model for EMTP, which is developed in ATP/ATPDraw environment. The model is able to represent the dynamic of IBRs during steady-state and under balanced and unbalanced fault conditions, allowing the representation of different power injection dynamics. A straightforward implementation in ATP/ATPDraw (which can be expanded for other EMTP) with computational burden lower than those of full EMTP IBR models is achieved. The proposed model software implementation is detailed, providing to experienced and beginning ATP/ATPDraw users a reference guide to simulate equivalent IBR models. For validation purposes, a benchm