## Equivalent model of nearest level modulation for fast electromagnetic transient simulation based on DC voltage control loops of sub-modules in modular multilevel converter

**Authors:** Guopeng Zhao, Xiaoyin Li, Dong Wang  
**Affiliation:** School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, North China Electric Power University, Beijing, China  
**Correspondence:** Guopeng Zhao, School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, North China Electric Power University, Beijing 102206, China. Email: zhaoguopeng@ncepu.edu.cn

## Abstract
The nearest level modulation (NLM) is used to automatically generate ac side voltages of sub-modules in modular multilevel converter (MMC). Existing literature seldom presents models that describe complex NLM processes. This paper proposes an equivalent model of the NLM to simply describe and simulate the complex NLM process. The main contribution of this study is to build the model of NLM with fast simulation speed for the application focuses on the simulation accuracy at the millisecond level. The duty cycle of the average model generated by the NLM in sub-modules of the MMC is divided into two components, which are the stable component for generating the bridge arm voltage and the fluctuation component for balancing the dc side voltage of sub-modules, respectively. The stable component is generated by the modulation wave of the MMC control system. By adding a voltage control closed loop to the sub-module, the fluctuation component for balancing the dc side voltages of sub-modules can automatically adjust the ac side voltages of sub-modules. The proposed equivalent model of NLM improves the simulation speed and has the same effect with the traditional NLM within the low-frequency range or with the time step of millisecond level.

## 1 INTRODUCTION
Modular multilevel converter (MMC) has advantages of low switching loss and easy scalability to higher voltage, and has good engineering application prospects in high-voltage and large-capacity power conversion [1–4]. About the MMC technology, a lot of research has been done in topology, mathematical model, simulation, control and protection etc.

In the field of MMC modelling, models in the existing literature such as MMC switching model [5], MMC average model based on switching function [6], and equivalent circuit model based on fundamental frequency [7] have been proposed.

The MMC switching model contains the full physics-based model, the detailed non-linear insulated-gate bipolar transistor (IGBT)-based model, the simplified IGBT-based model, and the detailed equivalent-circuit-based model [9]. At present, the existing MMC switching model contains massive power electronic devices, and the on-off process greatly increases the simulation time, especially in the case of a large number of modules. As a result, the simulation speed is extremely slow. Although its accuracy is high, the disadvantage of long simulation time makes it less applied in practical applications [9]. To solve this problem, the parallel computing or the parallel simulation is proposed in [10–12]. However, it requires more simulation hardware resources and is more complex to apply.

About the MMC average model based on switching function, in order to solve the problem of slow simulation speed, most of literature adopts the average value model based on the bridge arm equivalence with faster simulation speed. In the process of practical application, the average model in the literature is often used to replace the operation of switching devices, which equates the bridge arm or the sub-module of each phase as a controllable voltage source. For examples, in [13–15], the average model is used. In the average model, if the sub-module of each phase is equivalent to a controllable voltage source, the variable characteristics of the switching model can be better preserved. For example, in [16, 17], the ac side of MMC sub-module is equivalent to a controllable voltage source, and the dc side is equivalent to the parallel connection of a controllable current source and a capacitor. This equivalence can eliminate the influence of switching devices and improve the simulation speed. As shown in [8], in the MMC average model based on switching function, by using voltage source which is equivalent to switching devices for improving simulation speed, but the nearest level modulation (NLM) method still exists and is still based on simulation step of switching cycles.

In the equivalent circuit model based on fundamental frequency, when each bridge arm is equivalent to a voltage source, the output voltage of the bridge arm of the average model is more consistent with the output voltage of the bridge arm of the switching model, but voltages and currents of sub-modules cannot be studied at this time. Moreover, the NLM modulation is ignored here.

**FIGURE 1** Circuit configuration of MMC. MMC, multilevel converter.

1. When the NLM is applied in the situation of a