# Error in Propagation Velocity Due to Staircase Approximation of an Inclined Thin Wire in FDTD Surge Simulation
Taku Noda, Member, IEEE, Rikido Yonezawa, Shigeru Yokoyama, Fellow, IEEE, and Yuzo Takahashi, Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—This paper presents the result of a study on the error in propagation velocity introduced by the staircase approximation of a thin wire in the finite difference time domain (FDTD) surge simulation. The FDTD method directly solves Maxwell’s equations by discretizing the space of interest into cubic cells. Thus, it is suitable for solving very-fast surge phenomena which cannot be dealt with by conventional techniques based on the lumped- and distributed-parameter circuit theories. However, FDTD has a limitation that the shape of a conductive object must be modeled by a combination of sides of cells with forced zero electric fields. This indicates that a thin wire, one of the most important components in the surge simulation, results in a staircase approximation, if the wire is not parallel to any of the coordinate axes used for the discretization. A staircase approximation gives a slower propagation velocity due to the zigzag path which is longer than the actual length of the wire. For precise simulations, the error in propagation velocity has to be clarified quantitatively. In this paper, extensive simulations are carried out to obtain the velocity versus inclination characteristic, and it is deduced that the maximum error in propagation velocity is less than 14%.

**Index Terms**—Electromagnetic transient analysis, finite difference time domain (FDTD) methods, Maxwell equations, simulation, surges, wire.

*Manuscript received June 10, 2003. Paper no. TPWRD-00290-2003.*  
T. Noda and S. Yokoyama are with the Central Research Institute of Electric Power Industry (CRIEPI), Tokyo 201-8511, Japan (e-mail: takunoda@ieee.org; yokoyama@criepi.denken.or.jp).  
R. Yonezawa and Y. Takahashi are with the Department of Electronics and Information Engineering, Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology, Tokyo, 184-8588, Japan (e-mail: yuzotkha@cc.tuat.ac.jp).  
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TPWRD.2004.835396

## I. INTRODUCTION
NUMERICAL electromagnetic (EM) field simulations have become a practical choice for the analysis of very fast surge phenomena [1]–[4]. This is mainly due to the following two reasons. One is the recent progress of digital computers in terms of speed and memory capacity so that large-scale problems such as numerical EM field simulations can be solved by an economical computer system. The other is the fact that the numerical EM field simulations, which solve Maxwell’s equations rather than circuit equations, give solutions even for problems which cannot be solved by conventional techniques based on the lumped- and distributed-parameter circuit theories. The finite difference time domain (FDTD) method and the method of moments (MoM), out of the numerical EM field simulation methods, have been used for solving very fast surge phenomena. Ishii and Baba used MoM to analyze the lightning response of a transmission tower [1], and they also used MoM to calculate the lightning current in a tall structure [2]. Tanabe used FDTD for the simulation of transient grounding impedance [3]. Noda and Yokoyama proposed a method to represent the radius of a thin wire parallel to one of the coordinate axes in the FDTD surge simulation, and developed a general-purpose surge simulation code based on FDTD [4].

To solve very fast surge problems, an imperfectly-conducting ground and thin wires have to be represented, since the imperfectly-conducting ground is generally present and the thin wires are used to represent electrical wires and metallic frames of 3-D structures (such as transmission towers and buildings). FDTD is suitable for representing the imperfectly-conducting ground [3] and able to model thin wires parallel to one of the coordinate axes [4]. However, thin wires inclined with respect to the coordinate axes cannot be modeled as they are and have to result in staircase approximations as described below. On the other hand, MoM is able to model inclined wires as they are, but the representation of the imperfectly-conducting ground is complicated [5]. Thus, if the error due to the staircase approximation is clarified and shown to be small for practical purposes, FDTD can be a preferable choice over MoM.

FDTD solves Maxwell’s equations by discretizing the space of interest into cubic cells along the coordinate axes. This algorithm imposes that the shape of a conductive object must be modeled by a combination of sides of cells with forced zero electric fields, that is, a thin wire not parallel to any of the coordinate axes results in a staircase approximation. A staircase approximation gives a slower propagation velocity due to the zigzag path which is longer than the actual length of the wire. In this paper, extensive simulations are carried out to examine the error in propagation velocity due to the staircase approximation, and the velocity versus inclination characteristic is obtained. It is deduced from the result that the maximum error in propagation velocity is less than 14%. Two test cases are used to show that staircase approximations give practically accurate results.

## II. STAIRCASE APPROXIMATION (SCA)
Let us consider a straight line which connects the start point A to the end point B as illustrated in Fig. 1. The straight line is on a 2-D plane with a grid, and A and B are at grid points. If the straight line is approximated by a zigzag path along grid sides, as indicated by the dashed line, it is called a staircase approximation (SCA) of the straight line. The zigzag path that minimizes the distance between the straight line and itself can be determined by the foll