# Extension of a modal-domain transmission line model to include frequency-dependent ground parameters

**Alberto De Conti** ∗, **Maique Paulo S. Emídio**  
*LRC – Lightning Research Center, UFMG – Federal University of Minas Gerais, Av. Antônio Carlos, 6627, Pampulha, 31.270-901 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil*

**Article history:** Available online 11 March 2016  
**Keywords:** Transmission line modeling; Modal domain; Frequency-dependent ground parameters; Ground admittance correction; Time-domain simulations

**Abstract**  
This paper investigates the effect of frequency-dependent ground parameters on the simulation of electromagnetic transients on overhead power distribution lines using a modal-domain based transmission line model available in popular electromagnetic transient programs. The line parameters are calculated considering a soil model that is based on field measurements of ground conductivity and permittivity in a wide frequency range. An assessment is made of the errors associated to assuming constant or frequency-dependent ground parameters in the calculation of the ground-return impedance and the ground admittance correction in the case of a poorly conducting ground. The propagation function and the characteristic impedance of the transmission lines are fitted in the frequency domain as the sum of rational functions. The associated poles and residues are written in a .pch file that is interpreted by the Alternative Transients Program (ATP) as a frequency-dependent line model. Time domain simulations are performed considering different types of transients on typical overhead power distribution lines. The results indicate that the consideration of frequency-dependent ground parameters can be relevant in the simulation of high-frequency transients on transmissions lines if the ground is a poor conductor, although the presence of line branches is likely to minimize the observed effects. It is also shown that constant values of ground conductivity and permittivity are able to lead to results comparable to those obtained with a dispersive ground model provided a suitable value is selected for the ground relative permittivity.

∗ Corresponding author. Tel.: +55 31 34093412/999442474. E-mail address: conti@cpdee.ufmg.br (A. De Conti).

## 1. Introduction

The representation of the ground as a dispersive medium has been attracting a lot of attention in recent years. This is apparent from the increasing number of methodologies to measure and model the variation with frequency of the ground conductivity ($\sigma$) and permittivity ($\varepsilon$) [1–4], as well as from the current efforts to study the effect of such variation on switching and lightning transients in power systems [5–16]. A renewed interest has also been shown in the calculation of the shunt admittance of overhead transmission lines considering the effect of a finitely conducting ground [17,18]. However, the transmission line models available in popular transient simulators still rely on the use of Carson’s integrals [19] or some suitable approximation [20] to calculate the transmission line parameters, assuming constant ground parameters and ultimately neglecting the effect of a non-perfectly conducting ground in the calculation of the shunt admittance of the line. Since these approximations are valid for $\sigma \ll \omega\varepsilon$, where $\omega$ is the angular frequency, inaccuracies are expected in the simulation of transients in cases involving poor ground conductivities, high-frequency transients, or a combination of both.

In this paper, an attempt is made to investigate the possible inaccuracies associated with assuming constant ground parameters in the time-domain simulation of electromagnetic transients on power distribution lines. For such, the transmission line model proposed by Marti [21] is adapted to consider the influence of frequency-dependent ground parameters. The paper is organized as follows. Section 2 discusses the calculation of the ground return impedance and of the ground admittance of overhead transmission lines assuming constant or frequency-dependent ground parameters. Section 3 proposes a procedure to extend Marti’s model [21] for calculating transients on power distribution lines considering the effect of frequency-dependent ground parameters. Results and analysis are presented in Section 4, followed by conclusions in Section 5.

$d_{ij}$ | 3 | $\sigma(\omega), \varepsilon_r(\omega)$ | Integral Expression (2) | Magnitude ($\Omega/\text{m}$)