# Extending the Frequency Bandwidth of Transient Stability Simulation Using Dynamic Phasors
**M. A. Kulasza**, **U. D. Annakkage**, Senior Member, IEEE, and **C. Karawita**, Senior Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—This paper presents a novel approach to dynamic phasor-based transient stability simulation. The proposed method is based on the modified nodal analysis (MNA) approach to circuit simulation, which is used to construct continuous differential-algebraic equations (DAEs). The proposed method makes use of the stamp technique, which makes it possible to construct a general purpose MNA-based simulator. Stamp-based models for common power system components are derived in this work. A new MNA-based synchronous machine model is presented, which represents machines as nonlinear inductances instead of subtransient equivalents. The resultant continuous DAEs are numerically solved using the general purpose variable step and variable order library IDA. Simulation results from the IEEE 68 bus test system, a real 400 bus power system, and the IEEE 39 bus test system with an embedded HVdc transmission system demonstrate that the proposed method is suitable for large ac networks with power electronic devices. The results demonstrate good agreement between the proposed method and electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation. The results also demonstrate that the proposed method is fast and scalable with CPU times that are up to 200 times faster than EMT simulation.

**Index Terms**—Dynamic phasors, modified nodal analysis, power system transient stability, power system simulation.

## I. INTRODUCTION
Transient stability is defined as the ability of a power system to maintain stability following disturbances such as bus faults [1]. Historically, transient stability has been concerned with low frequency electromechanical oscillations in the range of 0Hz. The first transient stability simulation computer programs used admittance matrices to represent electrical networks, which became known as the quasistationary assumption [2], [3]. This assumption made stability analysis of early power systems feasible because it relaxes out high frequency network dynamics, which are unnecessary for analysis of low frequency electromechanical oscillations [1]. Removing a network’s high frequency characteristics makes it feasible to conduct long duration simulations of large power system models.

Subsynchronous oscillations associated with generator turbines, series capacitors, HVdc systems, and renewable generation are a major concern in modern power systems. Torsional modes with frequencies greater than 10Hz can be excited by HVdc system controls [4]. Subsynchronous resonance resulting in oscillations with frequencies greater than 20Hz have been observed in systems with wind generation located near series compensated lines [5]. These dynamics cannot be analyzed using conventional transient stability analysis as they include frequencies that cannot be reliably simulated using the quasistationary assumption [6].

The accurate and detailed study of power system dynamics has generally been associated with electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulators. EMT simulation tends to be computationally intensive, so simulation of large system models requires methods such as parallel processing. An alternative approach is to augment existing transient stability simulation using dynamic phasors. Dynamic phasors are a natural extension of steady state phasors that model dynamics while retaining the advantages of carrier frequency demodulation [3]. Additionally, many existing models can be extended to fit into dynamic phasor-based simulation. Previous research in small signal stability analysis has demonstrated the potential of dynamic phasors for improving the accuracy of quasistationary-based analysis [7]–[9].

The equations that describe a power system’s dynamics are generally differential-algebraic equations (DAEs) of the form
$$F(t, y, \dot{y}) = 0 \tag{1}$$
which are typically sparse and stiff. Implicit numerical methods with error control and variable step properties are ideal for power system simulation because a small time step can be used to accurately pass through high frequency transients. The time step is then automatically increased to simulate electromechanical transients.

The methods used by conventional transient stability simulators to construct and solve (1) cannot be used with dynamic phasors since they are inherently tied to the quasistationary assumption. Existing circuit simulation techniques can be used to develop a new approach since it is possible to show that an instantaneous circuit is structurally similar to its dynamic phasor equivalent [10]. Numerical integrator substitution (NIS) forms the foundation for EMT simulation and has been explored for dynamic phasor-based simulation in previous research [11]–[13]. The main drawback of NIS is that local integration embeds the simulation time step into a system’s equations, which makes variable step simulation difficult and inefficient.

Manuscript received October 12, 2020; revised February 17, 2021 and May 18, 2021; accepted June 20, 2021. Date of publication July 2, 2021; date of current version December 23, 2021. This work was supported in part by the RTDS Technologies Inc. and in part by the TransGrid Solutions Inc., Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. Paper no. TPWRS-01721-2020. (Corresponding author: M. A. Kulasza.)

M. A. Kulasza and U. D. Annakkage are with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB R3T 5V6, Canada (e-mail: umkulasm@myumanitoba.ca; Udaya.Annakkage@umanitoba.ca).

C. Karawita is with TransGrid Solutions Inc., Winnipeg, MB R3T 6C2, Canada (e-mail: ckarawita@tgs.biz).

Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TPWRS.2021.3094451