# Fast Simulation Model of Voltage Source Converters With Arbitrary Topology Using Switch-State Prediction

**Shilin Gao**, Student Member, IEEE, **Yankan Song**, Member, IEEE, **Ying Chen**, Senior Member, IEEE, **Zhitong Yu**, Member, IEEE, and **Rui Zhang**

**Abstract**— Voltage source converter (VSC) is fundamental and critical in renewable energy integration and transmission and has become ubiquitous in power systems. For the design and operation of power systems with VSCs, electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation is indispensable. However, a large number of VSCs in power systems cause a high time-consuming issue in EMT simulation. This article proposes a fast EMT simulation model for VSCs with arbitrary topology based on switch-state prediction. The accurate switch-state prediction has two steps: Preliminary switch-state prediction and simultaneous switching prediction. It avoids the iterative computation required to obtain a feasible switch-state combination in the traditional EMT simulators. Extensive tests on different types of VSCs and a dc microgrid demonstrate that the proposed fast model significantly improves the EMT simulation efficiency of power systems with VSCs.

**Index Terms**—Electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation, half-bridge converter, neural-point-clamped (NPC) converter, switching state prediction, t-type converter, voltage source converter (VSC).

Manuscript received December 11, 2021; revised April 5, 2022; accepted May 16, 2022. Date of publication May 24, 2022; date of current version June 24, 2022. This work was supported in part by the National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grants 52007101, 51877115, and 51861135312. Recommended for publication by Associate Editor F. Gao. (Corresponding author: Yankan Song.)

Shilin Gao and Ying Chen are with the Department of Electrical Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China (e-mail: gaosl19@foxmail.com; chen_ying@tsinghua.edu.cn).

Yankan Song, Zhitong Yu, and Rui Zhang are with the Sichuan Energy Internet Research Institute, Tsinghua University, Chengdu 610042, China (e-mail: songyankan@cloudpss.net; yuzhitong@cloudpss.net; zhangrui_cq@foxmail.com).

Color versions of one or more figures in this article are available at https://doi.org/10.1109/TPEL.2022.3176687.

Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TPEL.2022.3176687

## I. INTRODUCTION

VOLTAGE source converter (VSC) is widely used in the modern power system for various applications, such as photovoltaic systems [1], wind farms [2], ac/dc microgrids [3], and high voltage direct current (HVdc) systems [4], due to the advantages in the aspects of reliability, controllability, and flexibility. Nowadays, with the high penetration of renewable energies, a large number of VSCs are integrated into the power system [5]. Along with this, the problems such as subsynchronous oscillations, voltage surges, and poor power quality are becoming increasingly severe [6].

Owing to the complexity of VSCs, digital simulation is needed in the design, analysis, and control of VSC systems. The modern circuit simulators fall into two classes: 1) The state-space analysis method-based simulators, e.g., DSIM [7] and Simulink [8], and 2) the nodal-analysis method-based simulators, e.g., PSCAD/EMTDC [9], [10] and EMTP-RV [11], [12]. These two categories of methods have their own advantages and have different applications. Compared with the nodal analysis method, the state-space approach is widely used for power electronic system simulation as the state equation of power electronic systems can be readily constructed [13]. Besides, the state-space matrices are independent of step-size so a variable-step solver can be readily implemented to obtain a faster simulation speed. Under the framework of the state-space approach, the discrete state event-driven (DSED)-based simulation algorithm for power electronic systems is proposed in [13]–[15], and the simulator DSIM is developed based on the DSED method, which is very efficient. It is widely used in device-level studies of power electronic systems. The main disadvantage is that it has difficulty in system-level studies (e.g., difficulty in modeling transmission lines with distributed parameters [16]). In contrast, the nodal analysis method (also called EMTP-type method [17]) works well in power system electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulations. To study the dynamic characteristics of power systems with VSCs, the power converters have been modeled under the EMTP-type solution framework, such as PSCAD/EMTDC. Nowadays, the EMTP-type simulators are widely used in the system-level studies of power systems with converters, such as the oscillation analyses of renewable energy integration systems, the control and protection system characteristic analyses of high-voltage direct current transmission grid, and hardware-in-the-loop tests of controllers of the power electronic systems.

Nevertheless, these traditional EMTP-type simulators are usually confronted with low computational efficiency issues when simulating the power system with a large number of VSCs. Four factors account for the low efficiency. First, since detailed models are commonly adopted for the VSCs, tiny time-steps (as small as microseconds) are required to emulate switching events within the converters accurately [18]. Second, for the electric network of power system with numerous VSCs, there are too many switches, resulting in a high-dimensional system dynamic equation with a large admittance matrix [19]. Third, the nodal admittance matrix of the power system