## Fast Realization of the Modal Vector Fitting Method for Rational Modeling With Accurate Representation of Small Eigenvalues
Bjørn Gustavsen, Senior Member, IEEE, and Christoph Heitz

**Abstract—** Admittance-based rational modeling of multiport systems is prone to error magnification in applications with high-impedance terminations. This problem is overcome by the modal vector fitting method (MVF) which is formulated in terms of modal components with inverse least-squares weighting by the eigenvalue magnitude. A direct realization of MVF is very demanding in computation time and memory requirements. This paper overcomes the performance deficiency via three steps: 1) the required number of MVF iterations is reduced by precalculating an improved initial pole set via conventional vector fitting with inverse magnitude weighting; 2) the pole identification step is calculated in an efficient manner by solving for only the few essential unknowns while exploiting the sparse matrix structure; and 3) the residue identification step is calculated efficiently by a row-wise solution procedure that takes advantage of symmetry. The approach is demonstrated to give large savings for the modeling of a frequency-dependent network equivalent.

**Index Terms—** Electromagnetic transients, frequency-dependent network equivalent (FDNE), network equivalent, pole-residue model, rational model, simulation, state-space model, vector fitting.

*Manuscript received April 15, 2008; revised June 24, 2008. Current version published June 24, 2009. The first author was supported by the Norwegian Research Council (PETROMAKS Programme). This work was supported in part by the Compagnie Deutsch, in part by FMC Technologies, in part by Framo, in part by Norsk Hydro, in part by Siemens, in part by Statoil, in part by Total, and Vetco Gray. Paper no. TPWRD-00248-2008. Color versions of one or more of the figures in this paper are available online at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.*

B. Gustavsen is with SINTEF Energy Research, Trondheim N-7465, Norway (e-mail: bjorn.gustavsen@sintef.no).
C. Heitz is with the Institute for Data Analysis and Process Design, Zurich University of Applied Sciences, Winterthur CH-8401, Switzerland (e-mail: christoph.heitz@zhaw.ch).

Color versions of one or more of the figures in this paper are available online at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TPWRD.

## I. INTRODUCTION
Rational fitting is a powerful technique for wide-band modeling of linear devices and systems. The procedure takes into account the frequency dependent effects in a straightforward manner, and the obtained model can be easily included in general simulation tools such as EMTP, for the simulation of electromagnetic transients.

The fitting process can be carried out using the pole-relocating method known as vector fitting (VF) [1] with recent enhancements [2]–[4] and extensions [5]–[7]. It is both fast and robust, and it produces a model with guaranteed stable poles.

The extracted model can be subjected to passivity enforcement (perturbation) in order to guarantee a stable time domain simulation [8]–[11].

Multiport systems are often modeled by (rational) pole-residue models, starting from an admittance based description in the frequency domain. In power systems, the admittance matrix $Y$ of components and systems is often characterized by a large ratio between the largest and smallest eigenvalue. For instance, $Y$ of a transmission line has at low frequencies large eigenvalues that correspond to short circuit currents and small eigenvalues that correspond to charging currents. Direct fitting of the matrix elements will often produce a model where the smallest eigenvalues of $Y$ are inaccurately represented, thereby leading to inaccurate model behavior when applied with high-impedance terminations [6]. For the modeling of transmission lines, this problem was overcome in [12] by the Folded Line Equivalent (FLE) which decomposes the admittance matrix into two parts that represent short circuit and open circuit conditions. Unfortunately, this approach is not applicable to general components, for instance frequency-dependent network equivalents (FDNEs).

In order to overcome this problem, the modal vector fitting (MVF) approach was introduced [6]. MVF attempts to minimize the error of the modal components associated with $Y$, rather than the matrix elements. These modal components are explicitly introduced in the VF formulation, thereby allowing to fit each component with relative error control. A disadvantage of the MVF approach is that the least squares (LS) matrix structures associated with the steps of pole-identification and residue-identification are much less favorable than in the VF formulation. This leads to a substantial increase in the computation time, limiting the MVF to relatively small problems.

In this paper, we show three steps which in total gives large savings in computation time and memory requirements compared to the original implementation of MVF. The number of iterations needed with MVF is reduced by computing an improved initial pole set via modal decomposition by a real transformation matrix. The computation time for the pole identification step is reduced by solving for only the few parameters of interest. The computation time for the residue identification step is reduced by decoupling the matrix rows of the LS problem while taking into account the symmetry of $Y$. This fast realization of MVF is demonstrated for the modeling of a frequency-dependent network equivalent.