**Faster-Than-Real-Time Hardware Emulation of Extensive Contingencies for Dynamic Security Analysis of Large-Scale Integrated AC/DC Grid**
Shiqi Cao, Graduate Student Member, IEEE, Ning Lin, Member, IEEE, and Venkata Dinavahi, Fellow, IEEE

*Manuscript received 14 October 2021; revised 17 January 2022; accepted 19 March 2022. Date of publication 28 March 2022; date of current version 22 December 2022. This work was supported by the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC). Paper no. TPWRS-01607-2021. (Corresponding author: Shiqi Cao.)*
*The authors are with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB T6G 2V4, Canada (e-mail: sc5@ualberta.ca; ning3@ualberta.ca; dinavahi@ualberta.ca).*

**Abstract**—The rapid expansion of modern power systems has brought a tremendous computational challenge to dynamic security analysis (DSA) tools which consequently need to process extensive contingencies. In this work, hardware emulation is investigated to accelerate the DSA solution of a large-scale AC/DC system deployed on the field-programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) faster-than-real-time (FTRT) execution. Electromagnetic transient (EMT) modeling of the DC grid is conducted since the fast converter dynamics require a small time-step for accuracy; in contrast, the transient instability (TS) simulation is applicable to the AC grid which tolerates a much larger step size. To coordinate the 2 different types of simulation, an interface based on dynamic voltage injection is proposed to integrate the AC and DC grids, in addition to maintaining a low hardware latency. An emulation platform consisting of multiple FPGA boards is established so that with a proper allocation it has a sufficient capacity to accommodate the system under study which has 6 ACTIVSg 500-bus systems interconnected by a 6-terminal DC grid. The efficacy of the proposed FTRT hardware emulation platform is demonstrated by 2 case studies with more than 5500 contingencies analyzed in total, where an FTRT ratio of more than 208 is achieved for the hybrid AC/DC grid, while it is over 277 times for a single 500-bus system. Furthermore, the FTRT dynamic emulation results, including the security indices, are validated by the simulation tool DSATools/TSAT.

**Index Terms**—AC/DC grid, dynamic security analysis, faster than real time, field-programmable gate arrays (FPGAs), parallel processing, power system security, power system stability, real-time systems, synchronous generator.

## I. INTRODUCTION

DYNAMIC security analysis (DSA) is necessary in assessing the ability of a power system to withstand cascading failures or contingencies in a specified time span to ensure that the power grid is at a secure operating point. In the last few decades, power transmission networks have been expanding significantly including the integration of high voltage direct current (HVDC) systems, making the modeling, simulation, protection, and control of the network significantly more complex. The increasing scale of a power system also demands that more contingency scenarios be taken into consideration during DSA. To mitigate the adverse impacts of a variety of disturbances on the actual power system, online DSA is widely utilized to continuously monitor the grid and take remedial actions [1], [2].

The contingency screening type is a major factor that influences the speed of DSA. A typical contingency analysis applies the power flow calculation or state estimation, which only provides a single-state security index for contingency ranking [2], [3]. Due to the relatively low computational burden, the power-flow based contingency analysis methods are widely utilized in high-speed DSA [4]-[6]. However, more stringent criteria have been proposed by the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) [7], which brings many challenges for conducting fast contingency analysis. Since it is computational onerous to evaluate all the contingencies at a time, a subset is usually selected for analysis in traditional contingency screening methods such as the performance index contingency ranking [8]. However, when a larger subset is required for the contingency analysis of a large-scale grid, it is difficult to achieve real-time execution. Meanwhile, the power-flow based contingency ranking methods fall short of provision of subsequent dynamic process after a disturbance, and are hence excluded for predictive control in an energy control center. Therefore, the transient stability (TS) simulation is adopted for DSA purpose. It enables the representation of the dynamic characteristics of all power system components in time-domain, which is a direct and precise method attributing to the utilization of detailed dynamic models [9]-[11].

The processing hardware is another aspect that limits the performance of DSA tools, which nowadays are usually supported by high-performance CPUs or multiprocessors for efficient simulation or even real-time execution [12]-[14]. Although presently CPU-based commercial DSA simulators are prevalent in stability analysis, the massive scale of the target power system, as well as the huge number of contingencies to be analyzed, always poses a significant challenge to the simulation efficiency. The utilization of the multiprocessors or supercomputers is a straightforward solution for real-time DSA due to the sufficient hardware resources and high processing frequency [15]. However, as many as 24,000 CPU cores may