Received 15 May 2022; revised 5 September 2022; accepted 25 October 2022. Date of publication 26 October 2022; date of current version 12 January 2023. Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/OAJPE.2022.3217601

# Faster-Than-Real-Time Hardware Emulation of Transients and Dynamics of a Grid of Microgrids

**SHIQI CAO** (Graduate Student Member, IEEE), **NING LIN** (Member, IEEE), AND **VENKATA DINAVAHI** (Fellow, IEEE)  
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB T6G 2V4, Canada  
**CORRESPONDING AUTHOR:** S. CAO (sc5@ualberta.ca)  
*This work was supported by the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC).*

**ABSTRACT** Enhanced environmental standards are leading to an increasing proportion of microgrids (MGs) being integrated with renewable energy resources in modern power systems, which brings new challenges to simulate such a complex system. In this work, comprehensive modeling of a grid of microgrids for faster-than-real-time (FTRT) emulation is proposed, which can be utilized in the energy control center for contingencies analysis and dynamic security assessment. Electromagnetic transient (EMT) modeling is applied to the microgrid in order to reflect the detailed device processes of the converter and renewable energy sources, while the AC grid utilizes the transient stability modeling to reduce the computational burden and obtain a high acceleration value over real-time execution. Consequently, a dynamic power injection interface is proposed for the coexistence of the two simulation types. The reconfigurability and parallelism of the field-programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) enable the whole system to be executed in FTRT mode with 51 times acceleration over real-time. Meanwhile, three case studies are emulated and the results are validated by the off-line simulation tool Matlab/Simulink®.

**INDEX TERMS** Battery energy storage system, doubly fed induction generator, dynamic simulation, electromagnetic transients, faster-than-real-time, field programmable gate arrays, hardware emulation, hardware-in-the-loop simulation, microgrids, parallel processing, photovoltaic array, predictive control, real-time systems, transient stability simulation, wind turbine.

## I. INTRODUCTION

The penetration of microgrids (MGs) with renewable energy resources has been increasing in the power system to alleviate the energy crisis and environmental issues [1]. The traditional centralized structure of the power systems is not efficient to meet the growing electricity demand due to the power loss in the transmission network [2]. Therefore, modern power systems are experiencing a shift from centralized generation to distributed generation [3]. The distributed generation with multiple MGs integrated may bring new challenges including designing, operating, and coordinating the complex system. Considering that in such an integrated network a small disturbance may spread to other areas and cause severe damage to the whole system, it further increases the complexity of controlling the microgrid cluster.

To deal with the complexity caused by the integration of MGs, a variety of models and control strategies have been developed and investigated in the literature. Most of the existing microgrid technologies focus on one specific aspect, such as energy management, control methods [4], [5], [6], [7], optimal power flow [8], or protection schemes [9], [10]. Meanwhile, some simulation models for analyzing the microgrids are also investigated, e.g., the detailed and simplified models for the energy storage system (ESS) in MGs are presented in [11] and [12]. Although significant progress has been made, these research results lack hardware support and the simulation models mentioned above are hard to realize in real-time, which is insufficient for modern energy control center that requires taking remedial actions immediately after a disturbance. Furthermore, it falls short of revealing the impact of multiple MGs on the AC grid with which they are integrated.

While there is still further research needed related to real-time simulation of the MGs, significant progress has been made in the literature which can be categorized into four aspects: 1) the design and modeling of MG components to achieve real-time simulation [13], [14], [15], [16], [17], [18], [19], [20]; 2) the utilization of existing commercial real-time simulators [21], [22], [23], [24]; 3) the development of real-time virtual test bed for MGs [25], [26], [27]; 4) novel computational approaches for distribution grids [29], [30]. Real-time simulation prefers the models with lower computational burden, and therefore, the relatively simpler models or equivalent dynamic models have been developed. Machine learning (ML) based models have also been investigated to selectively model and simulate MG components [15], [16], which significantly reduced the computational burden.

Recently, the FPGA-based platform has caught a lot of attention due to its strong computation capability. The FPGA is capable of performing high-speed real-time simulations with time-steps in the sub-microsecond range [32], [33], [29], however, a single FPGA board is limited by its finite amount of logical resources to perform parallel computations in solving a large-scale system. As presented in [34], a large system is deployed on a single FPGA board by utilizing parallel computation method, and the real-time simulation can be achieved. However, the steady-state estimation is taken into consideration in [34], which only provides a single state power estimation. The emulation of modern power grids requires each circuit component to be modeled in detail to properly reflect the dynamic processed and performance of the system. Nevertheless, low latency and hardware resource occupation are also critical for industrial practice. In this work, compr