# Generalized Formulation of Earth-Return Impedance / Admittance and Surge Analysis on Underground Cables
Haoyan Xue, Student Member, IEEE, Akihiro Ametani, Life Fellow, Jean Mahseredjian, Fellow, IEEE, Ilhan Kocar, Senior Member, IEEE

**Abstract—** A generalized formulation of earth-return impedance and admittance for underground cables is proposed based on a complete solution of Maxwell equations. The frequency responses of wave propagation characteristics are evaluated by the newly derived formulas and compared to those found from existing formulas in software used for the simulation of electromagnetic transients. Surge simulation results with the proposed formulas show more damping and smooth convergence to steady-state in comparison with those with existing formulas. The proposed formulas are validated with a field test on a 110 kV cross-bonded cable. It is also shown that the MoM-So method, augmented with admittance representation, verifies the results found from the new formulas presented in this paper.

**Index Terms—** Underground cables, earth-return impedance / admittance, wave propagation, transient, EMTP

## I. INTRODUCTION
Surge analysis in power transmission systems requires accurate calculations of earth-return parameters. The earth-return impedance of underground cables was initially developed by Pollaczek [1]. It was further modified by Sunde to include the earth permittivity [2]. Papadopoulos [3] proposed formulas for earth-return impedance and admittance of underground cables for the homogeneous earth case, and then extended them to stratified earth [4]. Wait and Bridges [5]-[8] independently derived more generalized formulas for a single underground cable earth-return impedance and admittance based on an exact expression from electromagnetic theory.

Recently, lightning induced voltages are studied on an underground cable [9] by adopting the earth-return impedance and admittance formulas based on reference [3]. An earth-return admittance formula of underground cables is derived based on quasi-TEM assumption [10], however the formula relies on the earth surface as the reference of the line voltage integral [10], [11].

The electromagnetic transients program (EMTP) [12] adopted Pollaczek’s formula of earth-return impedance and only insulator admittance of underground cables [13]. This is overhead lines [14], [15]. If the frequency is far below the transition region of Sommerfeld-Gaubau wave, i.e. up to several MHz [16], the influence of the earth-return admittance can be disregarded in the computation [17]. Only, the space admittance (constant space potential coefficient) is needed. However, recent studies [3], [14], [18], [19] show that the earth-return admittance of the underground cable plays a significant role in the surge analysis. Even in the low frequency region, i.e. several tens of kHz, the influence of earth-return admittance cannot be ignored. Also, unlike the earth-return impedance, the earth-return admittance of the underground cables is more sensitive to earth parameters.

Based on the facts above, Section II in this paper derives a generalized formulation for earth-return impedance and admittance based on the complete field solution [5] and telegrapher’s equations [20]-[22] for multi-phase underground cables. Three different line voltage calculations related to different earth-return impedance and admittance formulas are discussed. Also, quasi-TEM based earth-return impedance and admittance formulas are deduced from the formulas of complete field solution. In Section III, the calculated results of cable impedance and admittance using the proposed formulas are compared with the recently developed MoM-So method [23], [24] and the formulas [1], [3]. Also, the wave propagation characteristics of cables [25] are evaluated by the proposed formulas and compared with those by Pollaczek implemented into EMTP [12]. Section IV performs surge simulations and presents a comparison with field tests for a cross-bonded cable [25], [26]. Thus, the differences of wave propagation and surge characteristics between the proposed formulas and existing formulas adopted in EMTP or EMT-type tools, are investigated.

## II. GENERALIZED FORMULATION BASED ON COMPLETE FIELD SOLUTION
The configuration of an underground cable system with N cables is illustrated in Fig. 1, where the cable is composed of an