# Fine-Grained Optimal Allocation of Wind Farm Decoupled Models for CPU-GPU Parallel EMT Simulation

Tengfei Liu, Yibao Jiang, Member, IEEE, Haoran Zhao, Senior Member, IEEE, Bing Li, Kai Strunz, Fellow, IEEE

**Abstract**—Parallel simulation based on CPU-GPU heterogeneous hardware, owing to its high speed-up ratio, has emerged as an effective approach for accelerating electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation of wind farms. However, most existing studies rely mainly on hardware multi-threading capabilities, with limited quantitative analysis of model–hardware adaptability, resulting in insufficient exploitation of the complementary advantages of CPUs and GPUs. To this end, this paper proposes a fine-grained optimal allocation method (FGOAM) that formulates the hardware assignment of each subsystem in wind farms as a constrained optimization problem for maximal simulation efficiency. Firstly, a bottom-up quantification method is developed to accurately assess the computational resources and solution time of decoupled models by decomposing the computation process into sequential and parallelizable steps. Secondly, a FGOAM for decoupled wind farm models is proposed, for the first time, by formulating an integer nonlinear programming (INLP) problem for step-level computation allocation. Finally, to further improve solution efficiency of FGOAM, an enhanced FGOAM (E-FGOAM) is derived via integer variable reduction without sacrificing allocation optimality. The accuracy of the proposed quantification method and the improvement on simulation efficiency after optimal allocation are validated. Simulation results demonstrate that the simulation speed is increased by two orders of magnitude for a wind farm consisting of 400 turbines.

**Index Terms**—CPU-GPU, electromagnetic transient, optimal allocation, parallel simulation, wind farm.

## I. INTRODUCTION

With the rapid development of renewable energy, wind power has become a dominant contributor to the grid decarbonization [1]. As wind farms are integrated into power systems at scale, their converter-driven dynamics bring significant challenges to grid stability. Electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation is essential in capturing fast dynamics and identifying potential issues [2], [3]. However, the growing scale of wind farms and the increasing switching frequency of wind power converters [4], [5] demands smaller simulation steps [6], which impose higher efficiency requirements on EMT simulators of wind farms [7].

Parallel simulation is widely adopted in current wind farm simulators, where a wind farm is decoupled into multiple subsystems and simulated using multi-threaded hardware. Multi-threaded simulators can be categorized into those constructed on single-type hardware and those built on heterogeneous hardware. The simulators based on single-type hardware, typically consisting of one or more central processing units (CPUs), are limited by finite threads [8], [9] and exhibit low parallelism when simulating large-scale wind farms. To enhance parallel computing, heterogeneous hardware platforms combining CPUs with graphics processing units (GPUs) or field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) have been developed with numerous parallel processing units. The FPGA-based heterogeneous simulators have strong capabilities of parallel processing and pipelinable execution [10]. However, the number of FPGAs in the simulator must scale linearly with the size of the wind farm [11], [12], leading to high implementation costs [13], [14]. In contrast, GPUs enable parallel processing capabilities by significantly increasing the number of computational units compared to FPGAs. A single GPU can accelerate EMT simulation of large-scale wind farms with hundreds of wind turbines, offering a practical and cost-effective solution [15]. Moreover, the compute unified device architecture (CUDA) architecture offers greater flexibility and scalability for numerical simulations, avoiding the need for time-consuming hardware-specific design in Verilog, as required by FPGA development. While GPUs offer significant advantages in parallel EMT simulation, their low clock frequency (for consumer desktop GPUs, typically within 3 GHz) results in longer simulation times for small-scale systems compared to simulators relying solely on CPUs [16]. Therefore, combining CPUs and GPUs to construct heterogeneous simulation platforms is an effective solution for wind farm simulation. However, simply combining CPUs and GPUs is insufficient to fully exploit the high clock frequency of CPUs and the massive parallelism of GPUs. How to properly allocate the decoupled model to appropriate hardware is also critical for maximizing the utilization of CPU-GPU heterogeneous acceleration capabilities. The optimal allocation of a decoupled wind farm model is essentially a problem of optimal load distribution [17]. To date, researchers in fields such as artificial intelligence, machine learning, edge and cloud computing, and signal processing have investigated how to allocate computational loads to appropriate hardware platforms in an efficient manner [9]. However, due to differences in the underlying problem settings, the corresponding optimization objectives

*This paper was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (grant numbers 52307112).*
*Tengfei Liu, Yibao Jiang, Haoran Zhao and Bing Li are with the School of Electrical Engineering, Shan*