# Fine-grained hardware resource optimization and design for FPGA-based real-time simulation of large-scale renewable energy generations
Yanfei Li $^a$, Zhiying Wang $^{a,*}$, Xiaopeng Fu $^a$, Peng Li $^a$, Ligang Zhao $^b$, Xiaoshan Wu $^b$
$^a$ Key Laboratory of Smart Grid of Ministry of Education, Tianjin University, Tianjin 300072, China
$^b$ China Southern Power Grid Electric Power Research Institute, Guangzhou 510663, China

**Keywords:** Real-time simulation, Renewable energy generation, Field-programmable gate array, Hardware resource optimization, Automatic hardware description language generation

**Abstract:** Real-time simulation of renewable energy generations (REGs) is essential for the development and testing of centralized scheduling controllers, inverter controllers and edge computing devices. The rapid expansion of renewable energy has brought tremendous computational challenges to the real-time simulation of REGs, particularly control system solutions. This study proposes a fine-grained hardware resource optimization and design method for real-time simulation of REG control system based on field-programmable gate array (FPGA). A hardware resource demand model is built at the arithmetic operation level. The minimum solution time and hardware resource constraints are considered. A detailed hardware design and automatic hardware description language generation method are proposed to rapidly generate the functional hardware modules for the REG control system solution. Real-time simulations of two REG systems integrated with 15 detailed modeling photovoltaic (PV) arrays and 15 wind turbines (WTs) have been conducted on a single FPGA, respectively. The simulation time-step of the PV-REG system is 9 μs and the time-step for the WT-REG system is 10 μs. Compared with the traditional hardware design, the hardware resource utilization has been reduced by 30% approximately. The relative error is less than 0.5% in contrast with the commercial off-line transient simulation software PSCAD/EMTDC.

## 1. Introduction
The large-scale integration of renewable energy generations (REGs) into a regional distribution grid changes the system topology and operation mode [1,2]. The integration of such REGs introduces various renewable energy generators, high-frequency power electronics and controllers, thereby rendering system dynamic characteristics more complex [3,4]. Electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulations are required to capture the fast transients in microseconds and reproduce the transient behavior of REGs with high fidelity [5,6]. Real-time EMT simulations facilitate hardware-in-the-loop tests and rapid system characteristic analysis of physical devices in REG systems, particularly the renewable energy power generation equipment and converter controllers [7,8]. A high-performance real-time simulator is required for evaluating various physical devices in different scenarios [9,10].

The rapid expansion of REGs has resulted in tremendous computational challenges to the real-time EMT simulation. An REG system comprises hundreds of renewable energy power generation equipment, converters and controllers. This yields a simulation system with hundreds or even thousands of nodes [11]. Real-time EMT simulations for such large-scale systems are time-consuming and computationally demanding. On the other hand, the high-frequency power electronic converters in REG systems require mandatory time-steps typically ranging from a few to dozens of microseconds [12,13]. Under the strict real-time constraint, the accurate solution for large-scale REGs further increases the computational burden on the underlying hardware.

In the real-time EMT simulation of REGs, system elements can be categorized into electrical and control elements [14]. The modeling and solving of these two categories of elements are conducted separately in the electrical and control systems. Considering the strong nonlinear characteristics inherent in renewable energy generation equipment, such as photovoltaic (PV) arrays and wind turbine generators (WTGs), it is preferable to model and simulate them in the more flexible control system [15]. Massive renewable energy generation equipment, grid-tied converter controllers and system-level controllers complicate the control system, and consequently, scale up the simulations [16]. In particular, in the simulation of REGs, the control system outperforms the electrical system at the simulation scale and consumes more hardware resources [17]. The efficient control system solution has become a

## Nomenclature
| Symbol | Description |
|---|---|
| **Indices** | |
| $m, l$ | Indices of the type of the floating-point arithmetic units from 1 to $N_{AU}$ |
| $STA$ | arithmetic unit |
| $t_{l,i}$ | Start time of the input data for the $i$th floating-point arithmetic operation of the $l$th type of floating-point arithmetic unit |
| $T_{min}$ | Total clock cycles consumed by the co |