# Flexible Time-Stepping Dynamic Emulation of AC/DC Grid for Faster-Than-SCADA Applications
Shiqi Cao, Student Member, IEEE, Ning Lin, Member, IEEE, and Venkata Dinavahi, Fellow, IEEE

**Abstract—** Dynamic simulation of the integrated AC/DC grids plays a crucial role in the energy control center. In this work, a faster than supervisory control and data acquisition (FT-SCADA) emulation based on flexible time-stepping (FTS) algorithm is proposed for the energy control center to predict and mitigate the impacts after serious disturbances using field-programmable gate arrays (FPGAs). To gain a high acceleration over SCADA/real-time, the FTS-based dynamic emulation is applied to the AC grid, which is the IEEE 118-bus system where a 9th-order synchronous machine model is adopted. Meanwhile, the electromagnetic transient (EMT) emulation revealing the exact performance of the DC grid provides an insight into the impact on its AC counterpart. A power-voltage interface is inserted between the AC and DC grids since distinct emulation strategies are utilized, and the EMT-dynamic co-emulation is able to run concurrently on FPGA boards due to their massive parallelism. Three case studies are emulated to demonstrate the efficacy of the proposed algorithm, and a minimum of 101 times faster-than-SCADA/real-time can be achieved. Hence, following the occurrence of a disturbance, the FT-SCADA/RT emulator will generate an optimal solution in advance to maintain the stability of the hybrid AC/DC grid. The results of the FTS-based FT-SCADA/RT emulation are validated by the off-line transient stability simulation tool TSAT of the DSATools suite.

**Index Terms—** AC/DC grid, dynamic simulation, electromagnetic transient, faster-than-SCADA, faster-than-real-time, field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs), flexible time-step, hardware emulation, parallel processing, predictive control, phasor measurement unit.

Manuscript received June 19, 2020; revised September 24, 2020 and November 3, 2020; accepted November 15, 2020. Date of publication November 19, 2020; date of current version April 19, 2021. This work was supported by the Natural Science and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC). Paper no. TPWRS-01013-2020. (Corresponding author: Shiqi Cao.)
The authors are with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta T6G 2V4, Canada (e-mail: sc5@ualberta.ca; ning3@ualberta.ca; dinavahi@ualberta.ca).
Color versions of one or more of the figures in this article are available online at https://doi.org/10.1109/TPWRS.2020.3038850.

## I. INTRODUCTION
Modern power systems are increasingly complex due to the interconnection between high voltage direct current (HVDC) and renewable energy, which makes the simulating, analyzing, and controlling the network difficult. Dynamic security assessment (DSA) is applied in power systems to ensure their stability and security. A complete DSA is composed of five stages [1]: measurements, modeling, computing, visualization, and control. The real-time measurements are captured by the supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) for basic state estimation, and then a detailed time-domain simulation is carried out for imminent contingencies. The obtained security indices are delivered to the system operators in the energy control center. The entire DSA cycle is conducted within 10-30 minutes to ensure that the operators have sufficient time to take remedial actions.

Due to the enormous computational burden in DSA systems and the expansion of power system scale, the hardware resources are stretched. For instance, to realize near real-time simulation of a power transmission system with more than 50,000 nodes and 3000 generators, the DSA is conducted on the supercomputer with more than 24,000 CPU cores for power system parallel simulation [2], which occupies a lot of hardware resources. On the other hand, the SCADA system collects data from the field every 2-5 s [3], this may be sufficient for steady-state tasks such as online power flow or state estimation, however, it falls short of predicting system stability and conducting online dynamic security assessment. The phasor measurement unit (PMU) technology provides a faster refresh rate (50/60 samples per second [3]) which is at least two orders of magnitude faster than SCADA, however, PMUs are expensive and cannot be installed on a wide-area to gather system dynamic situational awareness. Moreover, even if PMUs were widely deployed, communication delays to the energy control center would still exist.

In a real power system, the distributed and multi-input-multi-output (MIMO) wide-area damping controllers are also applied to mitigate the inter-area oscillations and reduce the computational burden. The MIMO controller of the power system can be estimated directly without the need for having a detailed model of the power system. Once the changing dynamics/operating points of the system are captured in the measured data, the MIMO model can be used for mode and control loop estimation. However, the MIMO identification of the power system, estimation of the control loops, and the design of the discrete linear quadratic regulator (DLQR) are done every 4s [4], and due to the slow rate of state estimation, MIMO identification is insufficient for real-time or faster-than-real-time estimation. The PMU based wide-area control of static synchronous compensator [5], on the other hand, has main restrictions such as the communication time-delay and the synchronization issues of wide-area controllers, which make them unsuitable for the FT-SCADA/RT emulation. Therefore, an integrated hardware platform based on FPGAs is established in this work for FT-SCADA/RT purpose so as to predict system dynamics faster and to take preventive control actions for mitigating the impacts of serious disturbances.

To provide fast, accurate, and time-synchronized data for the complex AC/DC grids, a high-fidelity simulation strateg