# FPGA-Based Sub-Microsecond-Level Real-Time Simulation for Microgrids With a Network-Decoupled Algorithm
**Jin Xu, Keyou Wang, Member, IEEE, Pan Wu, and Guojie Li, Senior Member, IEEE**

**Abstract**—The real-time simulation based on the field programmable gate array (FPGA) is receiving more and more attention. However, up to now, the simulation scale for the power electronic system is not so satisfactory due to the real-time requirement and the FPGA resource limitation. This paper proposes a sub-microsecond level real-time simulation method for microgrids. The power converters are modeled with fixed-admittance models and simulated with a compact electromagnetic transients program (EMTP) algorithm. In the meanwhile, the distribution lines/cables are modeled with π-circuit models and simulated with a distributed circuit solution method, called the latency insertion method (LIM). As a result, the distribution generation (DG) systems are decoupled with each other and can be simulated in parallel. The case study shows that the proposed simulation method consumes much fewer FPGA resources compared with the traditional one. Besides, the time step can be much smaller and doesn’t need to increase with the simulation scale. With these advantages, the real-time simulation of a microgrid consisting of three three-phase converters, three boost circuits and 21 three-phase lines can be achieved on the Xilinx Kintex-7 410T FPGA with a minmum time-step of 380 ns.

**Index Terms**—Field programmable gate array (FPGA), latency insertion method (LIM), microgrid, real-time simulation.

Manuscript received January 21, 2019; revised April 25, 2019; accepted July 15, 2019. Date of publication August 19, 2019; date of current version March 24, 2020. This work was supported in part by the National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grants 51877133, 51477098, in part by the National Key R&D Plan under Grant 2016YFB0900601, and in part by the State Grid Corporation of China Science and Technology Project under Grant 52094017000Z. Paper no. TPWRD-00094-2019. (Corresponding author: Keyou Wang.)

The authors are with the Department of Electrical Engineering, School of Electronic Information and Electrical Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai 200240, China (e-mail: xujin20506@sjtu.edu.cn; wangkeyou@sjtu.edu.cn; w20131501@163.com; liguojie@sjtu.edu.cn).

## I. INTRODUCTION
The microgrid is an efficient scheme of managing renewable energy integration in the power distribution system [1], [2]. The control, protection and operation strategy of microgrids are technically required to pass the hardware-in-the-loop (HIL) test before being applied in actual projects [3], [4]. However, as the real-time simulation techniques for power electronic systems are not so matured, few HIL tests of microgrids are performed in practice. The challenges mainly come from the fast discrete characteristic of power electronic switches, which causes great computing burden in the electromagnetic simulation. Some work has been done to minimize the operations of the interpolation technique for power electronic switches in real-time simulation [5]. However, the interpolation algorithm in the real-time simulation still has some problems to be solved, such as multiple switching problem. Therefore, most of the existing real-time simulators have to adopt small time-steps to reflect the switching moments accurately [6]. For a switching frequency of 20 kHz, a time-step smaller than 500 ns is usually required [7]. Achieving real-time simulations with such small time-steps requires not only the great computing power of hardware platforms but also the high efficiency of simulation models and simulation algorithms.

Commercial real-time simulators, such as RTDS and RT-LAB, can reach a small time-step of 0.5 μs-2 μs by virtue of their powerful FPGA modules. In recent years, more and more researchers are trying to implement the simulation on the FPGA, due to its high degree of parallelism and low latency of communication. Reference [8], [9] develop the FPGA-based real-time simulators for traditional power systems and electrical machines. Reference [7], [10], [11] develop the FPGA-based real-time simulators for power converters. Reference [12] achieves the real-time simulation of a microgrid with four FPGAs working in parallel. Reference [13] achieves the real-time simulation of the CIGRÉ DC grid on a Mpsoc-FPGA-Based platform. In most of the aforementioned real-time simulators for power electronic systems, an efficient switch model is adopted to meet the real-time requirement. It is known as the fixed-admittance model, the associated discrete circuit (ADC) model [7], [14] or the small time-step model [15]. The authors also have made an improvement of this switch model to solve the virtual power loss problem [11].

Despite the powerful hardware platform and the efficient switch model mentioned above, the real-time performance and hardware resource consumption of the FPGA-based real-time simulator will still come to an unacceptable level quickly as the simulation scale increases. As a result, few researchers or manufacturers, have ever achieved the real-time simulation of a normal scale microgrid on the sub-microsecond-level with one FPGA device. To realize this goal, this paper proposes a sub-microsecond-level real-time simulation method for microgrids with a network-decoupled algorithm, which has the following advantages:
1) Larger simulation scales: The proposed simulation method consumes much fewer FPGA resources. Thus more complicated microgrids can be simulated.