# FPGA-Based Real-Time EMTP
Yuan Chen, Student Member, IEEE, and Venkata Dinavahi, Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—Real-time transient simulation of large transmission networks requires significant computational power. This paper proposes a field-programmable gate array (FPGA)-based real-time electromagnetic transient simulator. Taking advantage of the inherent parallel architecture, high density, and high clock speed, the real-time Electromagnetic Transients Program (EMTP) is implemented on a single FPGA chip. It is based on a paralleled algorithm that is deeply pipelined, and uses a floating-point arithmetic calculation to achieve high accuracy for simulating fast electromagnetic transients. To validate the new simulator, a sample system with 15 transmission lines using full frequency-dependent modeling is simulated in real time. A timestep of 12 µs has been achieved based on a 12.5-ns clock period with high data throughput. The captured real-time oscilloscope results demonstrate excellent accuracy of the simulator in comparison to the offline simulation of the original system in the Alternative Transients Program version of EMTP.

**Index Terms**—Electromagnetic transient analysis, field-programmable gate arrays (FPGAs), parallel algorithms, real-time systems.

Manuscript received November 26, 2007; revised January 07, 2008. First published May 12, 2008; current version published March 25, 2009. This work was supported by the Natural Science and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC). Paper no. TPWRD-00739-2007.

The authors are with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB T6G 2V4, Canada (e-mail: yuanchen@ece.ualberta.ca; dinavahi@ece.ualberta.ca).

Color versions of one or more of the figures in this paper are available o

## I. INTRODUCTION
ELECTROMAGNETIC transient simulation plays an important role in the planning, design, and operation of modern power transmission systems. Simulation can be accomplished in either offline or real-time mode. For offline transient simulation, the electromagnetic transients program (EMTP) [1], [2] is widely accepted and well used. There are several EMTP-type software packages available commercially that offer a wide variety of modeling capability. Real-time simulation is desired for the testing of manufactured protection and control equipment in a hardware-in-the-loop configuration. Real-time simulation can be based on an analog simulator such as a transient network analyzer (TNA) or on a real-time digital simulator. The analog TNA uses scaled down models of power system components. For example, the frequency response of a long transmission line is approximated by cascading several analog sections representing shorter line segments. This can be quite cumbersome due to the high cost, large space, and long setup and changeover times, thereby limiting the TNA’s application to small and medium sized networks. Over the last two decades, real-time digital simulators have achieved a high level of sophistication to be able to supplant analog TNAs. Nevertheless, there is an ever increasing pressure to accommodate large network sizes, and to reduce the simulation timestep to accurately capture high frequency transients, which essentially translates to the requirement of higher computational power for the simulator hardware.

Historically, real-time digital simulator hardware was built around the general purpose processor (GPP) based on the RISC or x86 architectures or the digital signal processor (DSP) [3]–[10]. The computational engine that performed the EMTP calculations was basically a sequential software program. Since the computational capability required by real-time EMTP is beyond most single general purpose computers due to the increasing complexity of power systems being modeled, parallel computer architectures became necessary. This was accomplished by using multi-DSP [4], [6], [7], multi-RISC [8], or PC-cluster architectures [9], [10]. For instance, [7] proposed a method using two DSPs for each transmission line. Each DSP processes the quantities for one end of the line (sending end and receiving end) simultaneously. For larger network sizes, the system was partitioned into smaller subsystems. Each processor was made responsible for calculation of quantities within a single subsystem. Timestep synchronization, precise communication and data exchange are fundamental in this multiprocessor architecture. Although, theoretically clusters with large number of processors can be constructed, the main computation bottleneck in such an architecture is the inter-processor communication latency. Another approach to accommodate large transmission networks while maintaining sufficient accuracy for real-time simulation [11] is to use an efficient wide-band frequency-dependent network equivalent (FDNE). However, deriving an accurate FDNE model is a finely-tuned art requiring significant setup time due to the various optimizations and fittings required to obtain a low-order equivalent. In contrast to the full-scale representation, there is also a degree of loss of one-to-one mapping between the original system physical layout and the simulator architecture, since the signals inside the equivalenced system are no longer accessible.

The ultimate performance of any real-time simulator depends to a large extent on the capabilities of the underlying hardware. Field-programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) offer a viable alternative for speeding up the real-time simulator without sacrificing accuracy or incurring excessive communication latency. The FPGA is comprised of a variety of logic building blocks. Each block consists of programmable look-up tables and registers, and the interconnections among these blocks can be programmed through a hardware description language such as VHDL. Admittedly, programming in VHDL is more complex than programming in a high-level structured language such as C or C++; however, unlike the GPP or DSP, which is a