## Frequency-Adaptive Power System Modeling for Multiscale Simulation of Transients
Feng Gao and Kai Strunz

*Manuscript received May 02, 2008; revised September 29, 2008. Current version published April 22, 2009. Paper no. TPWRS-00331–2008.*
The authors are with the Technische Universität Berlin, Berlin 10587, Germany (e-mail: kai.strunz@tu-berlin.de).

**Abstract**—A multiscale power system modeling methodology for the integrative simulation of electromagnetic and electromechanical transients is introduced, implemented and validated. It makes use of frequency-adaptive simulation of transients (FAST) in which the shift frequency appears as a new parameter in addition to the time step size. For fast electromagnetic transients, tracking of instantaneous waveforms as in the Electromagnetic Transients Program (EMTP) is performed. When slower electromechanical transients involving power oscillations prevail, the Fourier spectra of the waveforms are shifted by typically either 50 or 60 Hz to eliminate the ac carrier and enable envelope following as in phasor-based simulation. An algorithm for the automatic setting of both shift frequency and time step size is proposed. Multiscale models of transformers, synchronous machinery, and transmission lines based on FAST are developed. The line model is distinguished in that it bridges both lumped and distributed parameters to efficiently emulate scale-bridging phenomena from steady state to traveling waves. The overall methodology is thoroughly validated: first against a staged field test involving transients of line energization and recovery on the network of the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA); then through comparison with an EMTP-type simulator in modeling diverse transients on a four-machine two-area power system.

**Index Terms**—Dynamic phasor, electromagnetic transients, electromechanical transients, EMTP, frequency adaptive simulation of transients, multiscale, power system modeling, power system simulation, shift frequency.

## I. INTRODUCTION
Simulators of the electromagnetic transients program (EMTP) type are widely respected for their accuracy in emulating electromagnetic transients in power systems [1]–[4]. The simulation algorithms of the EMTP process real and instantaneous signals to track the natural waveforms of voltages and currents as they occur in reality. The computational efficiency of the EMTP-type simulators is reduced when simulating ac voltages and currents whose Fourier spectra are concentrated on a narrow bandwidth around the carrier frequency, which is typically either 50 or 60 Hz in power electric networks. The major information of interest lies in the disturbances to the envelopes. The latter can be tracked at a much larger time step size compared with the instantaneous natural waveforms of the ac carriers. This situation is observed in the case of electromechanical transients. Tools for tracking the envelopes efficiently use simulation algorithms that process phasor signals [5]–[9]. If it is of interest to study both electromagnetic and electromechanical transients with a single tool, then the concept of frequency-adaptive simulation of transients (FAST) [10] offers an efficient solution approach. It uses analytic signals to bridge the relative merits of instantaneous and dynamic phasor signals and is distinguished by the introduction of adaptive frequency shifting of the Fourier spectra. If the shift frequency is set to the carrier frequency, then the carrier is eliminated and electromechanical transients are emulated efficiently as it is for dynamic phasor signals. If the shift frequency is set to zero, then the carrier is visible and electromagnetic transients are represented based on instantaneous signals.

The fundamental contributions to the multiscale simulation of electromagnetic and electromechanical transients introduced and described in this work are threefold. First, a library of power system component models for simulating multiscale transients in transformers, transmission lines, and synchronous generators is developed. Second, an algorithm for the automatic two-dimensional control of both time step size and shift frequency is presented to adaptively track electromagnetic and electromechanical transients, respectively. Third, the value of the modeling method is substantiated through case studies. The validation is based on a comparison with the results of a field test carried out on the network of the Bonneville Power Administration and through comparison with the performance of an EMTP-type simulator.

In Section II, the state of the art is reviewed to provide the reader with critical background information. The development of the library of multiscale models is elaborated upon in Section III. The algorithm for the automatic control of the two-dimensional setting of time step size and shift frequency is proposed in Section IV. In Section V, the frequency-adaptive modeling is applied and validated. Conclusions are drawn in Section VI.

## II. STATE OF THE ART
### A. Analytic Signal Processing
Naturally generated signals $x(t)$ are real. A quadrature component is obtained by applying the Hilbert transform $\mathcal{H}\{x(t)\}$. Adding the quadrature component as imaginary part to $x(t)$, the corresponding analytic signal is obtained [11]:
$$ \tilde{x}(t) = x(t) + j\hat{x}(t) \tag{1} $$
The effect of creating an analytic signal from an original signal $x(t)$ with bandpass characteristic about carrier frequency $f_c$ is depicted in Fig. 1. While the Fourier spectrum of $x(t)$ extends to negative frequencies, this is not the case for the corresponding analytic signal.

Fig. 1. Application of the Hilbert transform.
Fig. 3. Conventions for inductor. Left: original element. Right: frequency-adaptive companion m