## Full-wave black-box transmission line tower model for the assessment of lightning backflashover
Bamdad Salarieh, Behzad Kordi *
Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB, R3T 5V6, Canada

**Keywords:** Lightning protection, Electromagnetic analysis, Power system transients, Finite element method, Transmission towers, Multiport network

**Abstract:** In order to calculate the overvoltages across the insulator strings of overhead lines, electromagnetic transient (EMT)-type simulators require a model of the tower and its grounding system. In this paper, an electromagnetic field simulation model based on the solution of the full-wave frequency-domain Maxwell’s equations is established to obtain an EMT-compatible black-box representation of the transmission line tower for time-domain simulations. Details of the system, such as the grounding system consisting of counterpoise electrodes, shield wires, phase conductors, and tower cross arms and slant elements are considered in the simulation model. The frequency dependence of soil electrical parameters is included as well. The input data to the frequency-domain simulation model consists of the topology of the tower structure, grounding system, and the parameters of the surrounding medium. As a case study, the developed simulation model is applied to obtain the black-box representation (macromodel) of a 400kV double circuit tower, where the lightning current injected at the tower top is the input, and the output is the induced voltage across the insulator strings. The critical current leading to the flashover of the insulator strings is calculated according to various existing flashover models and two different first stroke lightning current waveforms. Finally, a probabilistic analysis is performed to obtain the percentage of downward negative first strokes leading to a backflashover.

## 1. Introduction
Three mechanisms are responsible for lightning-related outages, namely, flashover, midspan-flashover, and backflashover (BF) [1]. The backflashover, which is the prevailing mechanism leading to outages in high voltage transmission lines, is caused when the lightning strikes the top of the tower or the shield wires near the tower [1]. In this case, the flow of the lightning current through the tower and the grounding system may result in a voltage rise of the tower and increasing the voltage difference across the strings of insulators. The backflashover occurs if the induced overvoltage across the string of insulators results in a breakdown. Backflashover is known to be the main mechanism of the power outages caused by lightning.

Electromagnetic transient (EMT)-type simulators are time-domain simulation tools and methods concerning electromagnetic transients, that will require the value of excitation sources at the present time (not the future) [2]. Two widely-accepted methodologies, documented in IEEE standard 1243 [3] and CIGRÈ Technical Brochure 63 [4], are commonly used in EMT-type simulators to calculate the developed transient voltage across a string of insulators and determine the backflashover rate (BFR) of transmission lines. There have been several simplifications adopted in the derivation of such theoretical approaches, which highly affect their accuracy, leading to an inaccurate predication of BFR [5]. In these methodologies, the transmission tower was represented by the simplified model of Sargent and Darveniza [6] and Chisholm et al. [7] in IEEE and CIGRÈ documents, respectively. However, such representation has been shown to have a considerable error in the calculation of the developed transient voltages [5,8]. In [5], for the case of a single-circuit transmission tower, the theoretical representations of tower resulted in an error of 11.5% in the calculated voltage across the string of insulators compared to numerical simulation results. With the increase of soil resistivity, the difference between the numerical and theoretical results increases further [8]. Using a different methodology and for double-circuit towers, the use of different theoretical tower models (including that of IEEE and CIGRÈ) were shown to lead to diverse results [8]. One other simplification used in these methodologies was the representation of grounding system by a resistance equal to the low frequency value of the grounding impedance that does not represent the frequency response of an actual grounding system [9].

The electromagnetic modeling of transmission line towers using different numerical/computational methods and to different extent of accuracy and system details has been explored in the literature to develop simulation models for towers. An example of the application of Method of Moments (MoM) is the work of Baba and Ishii [10]. In this work, a simplified ultra-high voltage (UHV) double-circuit tower model (without cross arms and major slant elements) was considered on a perfectly conducting plane, with the tower-footing grounding impedance approximated as a 40-Ω resistor. Salarieh et al. [8] used MoM on a electromagnetic field solver. The voltage across insulator strings can be obtained when different currents are injected into the tower top under different soil conditions, and the optimum length of the counterpoise electrodes can be determined to ensure a desired outage rate.

## 2. Simulation model
To develop the black-box model, a detailed geometry of the tower and its grounding system is first simulated using the numerical solution of full-wave Maxwell’s