# Functional Mock-up Interface Based Approach for Parallel and Multistep Simulation of Electromagnetic Transients
M. Cai, Student Member, IEEE, H. Gras, J. Mahseredjian, Fellow, IEEE, E. Rutovic, A. El-Akoum

**Abstract**—This paper presents a new simulation approach based on the Functional Mock-up Interface (FMI) standard for parallel and multistep simulation of electromagnetic transients (EMTs) in power grids with computationally expensive control systems. The control systems are represented by slave subsystems which are decoupled in memory from the power network and encapsulated in Functional Mock-up Units (FMUs). The simulation modes are either asynchronous or synchronous. In the asynchronous mode, the subsystems are simulated in parallel, whereas in the synchronous mode the simulation of each subsystem is executed in a sequential multistep environment. Considerable computation time gains in both modes have been observed in power system protection studies on large-scale networks with accuracy properly maintained.

**Index Terms**— Electromagnetic transients, FMI, parallel simulation, multistep simulation, co-simulation

## I. INTRODUCTION
THE simulation of electromagnetic transients (EMT) has become indispensable to utility engineers in a multitude of studies in power systems [1]-[3]. The EMT approach is of wideband nature and applicable to both slower electromechanical as well as faster electromagnetic transients. Nonetheless, the ever-growing complexity of modern-day power systems, especially those with HVDC interconnections and wind generation [4], considerably increases computational time in EMT studies which require the accurate solution of usually large sets of differential and algebraic equations (DAEs) with a pre-determined time-step.

Over the years, many efforts have been dedicated to improving computational speed in EMT-type simulation methods, in which parallelization and multistep solution techniques have drawn a fair amount of interest among researchers. The former include approaches using waveform relaxation [5] and techniques implemented in real-time [6]-[8] as well as off-line [1][9][10] simulation tools. In these methods, parallelization is achieved by taking advantage of the intrinsic propagation delay at distributed parameter transmission line and cable models for natural decoupling of networks while adopting a shared memory computing scheme. Multistep solution is attained by exploiting the property of circuit latency [11], or through “data-smoothing” at line-bus interfaces in a network [12]. Although computational speedup has been observed in some cases, the implementation of such multistep techniques on large-scale networks requires user intervention and remains complex to automate [13].

Furthermore, the interest in multistep solution has extended into the frequency domain, such as the multirate method for solving Frequency-dependent Network Equivalents (FDNEs) proposed in [14]. Apart from the previously mentioned efforts to improve computational speed, some researchers also investigated interfacing EMT-type solvers with transient stability (TS) programs by exploring parallelism between the two types of solvers [15]-[17]. Although such a hybrid approach can gain from the high efficiency of TS-type solvers, it is again not simple to generalize on interfacing nodes and to control accuracy.

This paper proposes a new off-line simulation method based on the co-simulation approach and using the Functional Mock-up Interface (FMI) standard [18] for parallel and multistep EMT simulations with control systems on conventional multi-core computers. Instead of bridging different solvers, the co-simulation approach adopted in this paper interfaces different instances of the same solver using decoupling in memory between the power network and control systems.

The co-simulation approach has seen implementation in power system studies [19], [20]. A previous attempt at introducing this approach in power system parallel EMT simulations was reported in [10], in which the FMI standard was only partially implemented with the adoption of a master-slave co-simulation scheme and parallelization was achieved through manual decoupling of networks at transmission lines. Notwithstanding, the steady-state solution needs to be obtained at the master-slave interface and stored prior to each co-simulation start. Several steps in [10] are complex to automate and require user intervention.

The new simulation approach presented in this paper establishes full compatibility between EMTP [1] and the FMI standard version 2.0. Also using the master-slave co-simulation scheme, this new approach decouples control