# Generalized Formulation and Surge Analysis on Overhead Lines: Impedance / Admittance of A Multi-Layer Earth

Haoyan Xue, Member, IEEE, Jean Mahseredjian, Fellow, IEEE, Akihiro Ametani, Life Fellow, IEEE, Jesus Morales, Member, IEEE and Ilhan Kocar, Member, IEEE

**Abstract—** A generalized formulation of earth-return impedance and admittance for overhead lines above a multi-layer earth is derived. An equivalent homogeneous earth method (EHEM) and a Method of Moments - Surface Admittance Operator (MoM-SO) method with modified earth-return Green function considering an N-layer earth are also proposed. The frequency responses of wave propagation characteristics are evaluated by the newly proposed formulas and compared to those found from existing formulas in software used for the simulation of electromagnetic transients. Transient simulations performed in an electromagnetic transient (EMT) type simulation tool are also presented. It is shown that the proposed generalized formulas, the EHEM and the modified MoM-SO method, are in agreement, validating and verifying the results found in this paper.

**Index Terms—** Overhead lines, earth-return impedance / admittance, multi-layer earth, wave propagation, transient, EMTP

H. Xue is with Polytechnique Montréal and GEIDCO, A. Ametani, J. Mahseredjian, J. Morales and I. Kocar are with Polytechnique Montréal, Montréal, QC H3T 1J4, Canada (e-mail: haoyan.xue@polymtl.ca, aametani@mail.doshisha.ac.jp, jeanm@polymtl.ca, jesus.morales@polymtl.ca, ilhan.kocar@polymtl.ca).

## I. INTRODUCTION

Surge analysis in power transmission systems requires accurate calculations of earth-return parameters. Earth-return impedance and admittance are significantly influenced by the characteristics of earth models. In reality, earth has a layered structure and generally consists of three to five layers [1], [2] with different electromagnetic properties. In the references [3]-[12], the exact and approximate formulations of earth-return impedance for overhead lines above a multi-layer earth have been derived and investigated. An alternative exact formulation which includes the earth-return impedance and admittance formulas for overhead lines above a 2-layer earth has been proposed in [13], [14]. However, a 2-layer earth model with the complete solutions of earth-return impedance and admittance [13], [14] cannot always represent a practical layered earth as it is demonstrated in [2].

In addition to the above-mentioned exact formulations of earth-return parameters, an equivalent homogeneous earth method (EHEM) that considers a representation of an equivalent 2-layer earth resistivity is proposed in [15]. Recently, the EHEM has been extended to an N-layer earth in [2]. In comparison to the exact formulas in [3]-[14], the EHEM has several remarkable advantages, such as satisfactory accuracy, simplification of formulas and high computational efficiency. However, the existing EHEM [2], [15] only considers the calculations of the earth-return impedance, and the formula is based on the Carson’s assumption [16]. As it is well known, the Carson’s assumption neglects the intrinsic propagation constant of air, earth permittivity and earth-return admittance, therefore, the displacement current of earth and the phenomenon of high frequency are excluded in the wave propagations and transient simulations [17]-[19]. An effort to account for earth permittivity and earth-return admittance in the EHEM is presented in [20], however, the formulation is still limited to a 2-layer earth case. Furthermore, the computational accuracy of impedance using the method in [2], [15] strongly depends on frequency and earth parameters, and is generally accurate below a few kHz, as pointed out in [2]. Therefore, considering the advantages of EHEM, it is necessary to improve and enhance its accuracy. Also, the generalization of EHEM with earth-return admittance which contributes to earth-return propagation mode needs more investigations. As a result, an improved EHEM up to an N-layer earth which can adapt to a wide range of frequencies (from Hz to MHz) can become a very useful tool in addition to exact approaches.

Numerical electromagnetic methods can be also used for calculating overhead transmission line parameters with a multi-layer earth. The finite-element method (FEM) has been adopted in [9], [21]-[23] for the calculation of impedance matrices in different conductor configurations. The major difficulties of FEM are in application complexity and computational performance. Recently, a remarkable approach using Method of Moments - Surface Admittance Operator (MoM-SO) technique [24], [25] has significantly improved computational efficiency for impedance calculations of generalized conductors with different earth conditions. Furthermore, a possible numerical instability of MoM-SO for the treatment of overhead lines on a homogeneous earth has been fixed in [26]. It seems possible to extend and further investigate MoM-SO to model overhead lines above a multi-layer earth.

Based on the above-mentioned facts, a generalized and exact formulation of earth-return impedance and admittance of overhead lines above a 4-layer earth is derived in Section II of this paper. A 4-layer earth model is considered to be sufficient