Received 25 August 2025; revised 8 December 2025; accepted 25 January 2026. Date of publication 30 January 2026; date of current version 11 February 2026.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/OAJPE.2026.3659790

# GPU Parallel-Rate Exponential Integrator Algorithm for Efficient Simulation of Power Electronic Systems

**JARED PAULL**<sup>1</sup> (Graduate Student Member, IEEE), **WALID HATAHET**<sup>1</sup> (Graduate Student Member, IEEE), **LIWEI WANG**<sup>1</sup> (Senior Member, IEEE), AND **WEI LI**<sup>2</sup> (Member, IEEE)

<sup>1</sup> School of Engineering, University of British Columbia Okanagan, Kelowna, BC V1V 1V7, Canada
<sup>2</sup> OPAL-RT Technologies, Montréal, QC H3K 1G6, Canada
**CORRESPONDING AUTHOR:** L. WANG (liwei.wang@ubc.ca)

This work was supported by the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council (NSERC) of Canada.

**ABSTRACT** Electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation of power electronic converters is critical for analysis, design, and fast control prototyping of power and energy systems. This paper proposes a multi-granular GPU parallel-rate exponential integrator (EI) algorithm for fast offline EMT simulation of power electronic systems. The proposed parallel-rate EI algorithm utilizes the massively parallel GPU architecture to compute multiple discretization steps in parallel. The matrix-vector computations of the EI algorithm within each time step are also parallelized. Additionally, a novel GPU-based framework is proposed for numerically efficient precomputation of matrix exponentials before a simulation loop starts. The high degree of parallelism leads to large simulation speedups compared to single-thread CPU implementations. The discretization technique of high-order EI algorithm is absolutely stable with no numerical ringing and can achieve accurate differential equation discretization with large time-step sizes. The proposed parallel-rate EI solver is further applied to detect passive/diode switching events accurately. Two case studies are used to demonstrate the accuracy and efficiency of the parallel-rate EI algorithm. Two additional case studies showcase the benefit of the proposed parallel precomputation technique for matrix exponentials.

**INDEX TERMS** Electromagnetic transients (EMT), exponential integrator (EI), graphics processing unit (GPU), multi-granular parallel simulation, phi-function precomputation, power electronic converter simulation.

## I. INTRODUCTION

Fast power converter dynamics introduced by semiconductor switching, control system interaction, and short-circuit faults require detailed electromagnetic transient (EMT) modeling and simulations [1]. Therefore, numerically accurate and efficient EMT simulation is vital for analysis, design, and rapid control prototyping of power electronic systems. The increase in size and complexity of power electronic converters impose new challenges when developing accurate and efficient EMT algorithms to better utilize advanced parallel computing hardware platforms.

Nowadays, EMT modeling and simulation have expanded beyond the traditional single-thread central processing unit (CPU)-based implementation environment. A plethora of prior art techniques have been proposed for transient simulations of power electronic converters on various parallel computing hardware architectures such as multithread CPU, field programmable gate arrays (FPGA), and graphics processing units (GPU). Multithread CPU implementation was successfully applied to large-scale power system EMT simulation in [2]. However, a multithread CPU has a limited number of hardware processing units, i.e., cores available for parallel computation. The multithread CPU typically enables block-level or coarse-grained parallelism, whereas fine mathematical operations such as matrix multiplications often remain sequential or poorly parallelized. FPGAs are programmable parallel hardware that can be efficiently interfaced with external circuits, making them popular for digital real-time simulators performing hardware-in-the-loop (HIL) experiments [3], [4]. However, the circuit scale of the EMT simulation on an FPGA is limited by both cost and complexity of implementation [5]. GPUs are massively parallel computing hardware that accelerates simulations using a single-instruction multiple-thread (SIMT) mode. SIMT allows a single instruction to be executed concurrently across multiple threads within a grouping, enabling fine-grained parallelism such as parallel matrix operations [6]. Unlike FPGAs, which are used in specialized applications, GPUs are commonly found in modern computers for graphics processing. As a result, GPUs are relatively inexpensive and have a mature development framework for custom parallel computing applications.

GPU hardware was first used to conduct power flow analysis on large-scale power systems in [7]. Later on, a CPU-GPU EMT co-simulation was proposed in [8], which utilizes a GPU for matrix operations and a CPU for the remainder of the simulation. As a result, significant data not offer parallel-rate EMT simulation, which needs to generate simulation output points with multiple time steps in parallel.

In the literature, the GPU has mainly been used to compute the discretized system at each time step sequentially. Parallel time-stepping computation was proposed in [20], where segments of the simulation are computed on the GPU in parallel. However, both the coarse-operator and precise-operator steps are ultimately computed sequentially. Additional speed-up is expected when computing multiple integration time-steps in parallel, with each step itself internally parallelized. In this way, the GPU can achieve simultaneous coarse- and fine-grained parallelism. This multi-granular parallelism is only feasible if the integration algorithm can accurately discretize the differential equation systems using large time-step sizes.

Trapezoidal rule (TR) and backward Euler (BE) methods are wi