# Grid-forming converters: Sufficient conditions for RMS modeling
George S. Misyris *, Spyros Chatzivasileiadis, Tilman Weckesser
Technical University of Denmark: Danmarks Tekniske Universitet, Ericavej 147, Copenhagen, Denmark

**Keywords:** Electro-magnetic transient (EMT) model, RMS Modeling, Voltage source converters (VSCs), Low-inertia systems

**Abstract:** Time-domain simulations are a critical tool for power system operators. Depending on the instability mechanism under consideration and the system characteristics, such as the time constants of controllers, either phasor or Electro-Magnetic Transient (EMT) models should be employed. On the one hand, EMT models provide a detailed-modeling of the system dynamics, thus increase the reliability of stability analysis; on the other hand, using these models increase the computing time of simulations, slowing down the security assessment process. To decrease computational time, system operators could resort to phasor-mode simulations for a subset of disturbances. This paper investigates the appropriateness of phasor-approximation models on simulating events related to power supply and balance stability when grid-forming converters are employed for providing frequency support. Moreover, it provides sufficient conditions and bounds for the control parameters of a grid-forming converter under which the phase-approximation modeling of the component is still valid. The control design is carried out using a simple transfer function approach. Time-domain simulation are performed to validate the transfer function analysis using different control settings and different line impedance characteristics.

## 1. Introduction
The dynamic nature of the electric power system undergoes a period of significant changes. A major part of these changes is associated with the replacement of synchronous generators with converter-based resources, which lead to the so-called low-inertia systems [1–5]. Due to this transition, transmission system operators encounter critical stability challenges for stabilizing the frequency of the system, since in the absence of synchronous generators, the maximum frequency deviation and rate of change of frequency become larger. To preserve a minimum amount of inertia, transmission system operators will rely on new converter control strategies, which can potentially address these issues [6]. These control strategies can be categorized based on the operating mode of the converter [7]. There are two main categories, namely grid-following and grid-forming converter. Considering that grid-following converters rely on a strong grid with high short circuit ratio and penetration of synchronous generation, they cannot be used as a potential control strategy for participating in active power balance [8]. Thus, in this work the focus is on the control strategies for grid-forming converters.

In traditional power systems, the dynamics of transmission lines is usually neglected and an algebraic model of the transmission network is used, i.e. algebraic relationship between the line currents and bus voltages. This neglecting of the dynamic nature of the network line dynamics is valid since the characteristic time constants of the synchronous generators are much greater. However, the characteristic time-constants of the converter-based resources are much smaller, thus there is no distinct time-scale separation between converter control loops and eigen-frequencies in power network. As a result, the influence that network line dynamics have on system stability is growing and the quasi-static modeling of transmission lines, i.e. RMS modeling [9,10], becomes inappropriate for determining the stability boundaries of the system. Consequently, to analyze fast power components, such as Power Electronic (PE) devices, the electro-magnetic dynamics (network line dynamics) are vital for system stability. However, taking electro-magnetic dynamics into account drastically increases the computational time for solving the system of differential algebraic equations which describes the power system dynamics (since the number of state variables increases).

This creates a limitation for online security assessment, since EMT simulations are considerably slower than RMS simulations. To assess the problem of the computation time of simulation, we first need to understand when RMS modeling is appropriate for simulating zero-inertia systems. As a result, neglecting the line dynamics can lead to incorrect results, such as the RMS model predicting stability while in reality the system is unstable [11]. Several works have focused on parametric constraints for the control settings of grid forming converters considering the influence of network line dynamics on the stability of the converter. While most of the existing work focuses on eigenvalue, bode plot and Nyquist analyses [12–15] for the control tuning of the converter, few researchers have studied the appropriateness of quasi-static modeling of network line dynamics [16–18]. In [16], the authors active power controller of the grid forming converter.

The scope of this paper is to identify the appropriateness of RMS modeling of a class of grid-forming converters, namely power synchronization loop and virtual synchronous generator [7], which are the most commonly used in literature. Our goal is to assess under which conditions RMS modeling (used by simulation

**Fig. 1.** Control structure of grid forming converter. Dashed blocks are either considered or disregarded depending on the class of the grid forming converter.