# Ground Potential Rise in Wind Farms due to Direct Lightning

Rafael Alipio a, *, Miguel Guimarães a, Lucas Passos a, Daiane Conceição a, Maria Teresa Correia de Barros b

a Laboratory of Electromagnetic Transients (LABTEM), Department of Electrical Engineering (DEE / CEFET-MG), Federal Center of Technological Education of Minas Gerais, Av. Amazonas, 7675, Nova Gameleira, 30.510-000, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil
b Instituto Superior Técnico (IST), University of Lisbon (UL), Av. Rovisco Pais, 1049-001 Lisboa

* Corresponding author. E-mail address: rafael.alipio@cefetmg.br (R. Alipio).

**Keywords:** Wind turbines, Grounding systems, Downward and upward negative lightning, Interconnected grounding systems, Impulse response

**Abstract:** This paper investigates the ground potential rise (GPR) developed in wind farms subject to direct lightning currents representative of first and subsequent negative downward strokes and return strokes associated with upward negative flashes. The wind farm grounding system is studied considering different numbers of interconnected grounding systems and for distinct values of soil resistivity taking into account frequency-dependent soil parameters. A wideband multiport model of the wind farm grounding system is obtained and implemented in a time-domain electromagnetic transient tool to include the aerial elements in simulations, namely the wind turbine blades and tower. It is shown that interconnecting more wind turbine grounding systems in parallel leads to a significant reduction of the low-frequency grounding resistance, whereas the decrease of the impulse impedance is much lower, especially for low-resistivity soils and negative downward subsequent strokes or negative upward lightning return strokes. It is also shown that the presence of the aerial components significantly affects the GPR in the response to lightning currents representative of negative downward subsequent strokes and return strokes associated with negative upward flashes, which have higher frequency content compared to negative first return strokes. The presence of the aerial components increases the GPR peak.

## 1. Introduction

Wind energy is one of the fastest growing renewable energy technologies [1]. The year of 2019 experienced global new wind power installations surpassing 60 GW, a 19% growth compared to 2018, and bringing total installed capacity to 650 GW [2]. It is well known that wind turbines (WTs) are vulnerable to lightning, which can damage the wind-turbine components or cause failure in sensible electronic equipment [3]. Wind turbines are usually located in high-wind areas such as coastal sites, hilltops, or mountain ridges, which are likely to present intense lightning activity [4]. In addition, the height of the turbines has been constantly increasing over the years, which enhances their vulnerability to lightning. Considering all these issues, the wind turbine grounding, bonding practices, and lightning protection system play an important role and provide protection for electrical equipment and personnel.

When subjected to direct lightning strikes, the accurate determination of the ground potential rise (GPR) is of utmost importance [3, 5, 6]. The GPR may be source of electrical noise and failure in the operation of equipment. It is to be noted that modern wind turbines are characterized by the presence of ever-increasing sensible control and electronic equipment. Furthermore, the GPR can be transferred to the power grid through the step-up transformers installed in each WT; thus, its accurate determination is of capital importance for designing appropriate protection measures.

The simulation of electromagnetic transients in a wind farm comprises intrinsic complexities [7]. A wind farm is typically composed of several wind turbines operating together and separated by distances of the order of the rotor’s diameter. The grounding systems of each individual wind turbine are normally interconnected through long buried bare conductors, as recommended in the IEC standard TR61400–24, forming a very complex grounding system when considering the entire wind farm. In order to accurately simulate the lightning transients in a wind farm, such aspects should be taken into account. However, the large dimensions involved in a wind farm makes the use of a full wave model too cumbersome or even unfeasible due to computational constraints. Then, some simplifications are usually assumed, for instance, only the struck wind turbine is considered in simulations [3, 8, 9] or a simple model is assumed to the grounding system based on lumped circuits or transmission line theory [10, 11]. These simplifications may lead to poor estimations of the GPR, depending on the configuration under study, soil properties and lightning current characteristics as shown, for instance, in [7, 12, 13].

Considering the aforementioned aspects, this paper aims to present a contribution to the simulation of lightning transients in wind farms. In this context, the objective of the paper is twofold. First, to assess the number of wind turbine grounding systems interconnected to the central one, as shown in Fig. 1. In this first analysis, aerial elements are not considered, and the grounding systems are assumed to be interconnected by a buried bare conductor of 200-m length (depth = 0.5 m). Secondly, aerial elements are included, such as tower and down conductors placed at the wind turbine blades. In this case, lightning is assumed to strike the blade air termination system. The current path from the