## Harmonic-Preserved Average-Value Model for Converters in Electromagnetic Transient Simulation

**Yang Cao**, Graduate Student Member, IEEE, **Wei Gu**, Senior Member, IEEE, **Mingwang Xu**, Graduate Student Member, IEEE, **Fei Zhang**, Member, IEEE, **Wei Liu**, Senior Member, IEEE, and **Suhan Zhang**, Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—The increasing utilization of power electronic devices has heightened the impact of harmonics in modern power systems. However, compared with detailed models, conventional average-value models (AVMs) result in reduced accuracy due to the neglect of switching harmonics, making it challenging to meet the accuracy requirements when focusing on transient responses or harmonic dynamics. To address this limitation, this paper proposes a system-level converter model called the harmonic-preserved AVM (HP-AVM). This time-domain-based model integrates AVM computation with harmonic component calculation into a unified simulation framework, enabling precision comparable to that of switching-function models (SFMs) for system-level simulation, while avoiding the high computational burden of detailed models. By leveraging AVMs as the backbone and preserving harmonic details, HP-AVM achieves both high computational efficiency and accurate harmonic representation in system-level simulations. Furthermore, HP-AVM demonstrates broad applicability across various converter topologies, including rectifiers, inverters, and choppers. Both simulation and experimental results validate the effectiveness of HP-AVM, demonstrating its high accuracy and computational efficiency.

**Index Terms**—Average-Value Model, Converter Modeling, EMT Simulation, Harmonic Calculation, HP-AVM, Stability.

*Received 14 October 2024; revised 15 May 2025 and 24 November 2025; accepted 14 December 2025. Date of publication 16 December 2025; date of current version 26 January 2026. This work was supported by the Science and Technology Project of State Grid Corporation, Key Technologies and Application of Digital Twin for Distribution Network with High DG Penetration under Grant 5400-202255154A-1-1-ZN. Paper no. TPWRD-01564-2024. (Corresponding author: Wei Gu.)*

*Yang Cao, Wei Gu, Mingwang Xu, Fei Zhang, and Suhan Zhang are with the School of Electrical Engineering, Southeast University, Nanjing 210096, China (e-mail: yangcao@seu.edu.cn; wgu@seu.edu.cn; 230228745@seu.edu.cn; zhangfei@seu.edu.cn; zhangsh_seu@163.com).*

*Wei Liu is with the School of Automation, Nanjing University of Science and Technology, Nanjing 210094, China (e-mail: wliu@njust.edu.cn).*

*Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TPWRD.2025.3645046*

## I. INTRODUCTION

Power systems have undergone a major transformation characterized by increased penetration of power electronic converter-interfaced technologies [1], [2]. Furthermore, the substantial integration of converter-interfaced generation (CIG) technologies, loads, and transmission devices has led to an augmented reliance on fast-responding power electronics for the dynamic response of the power system. This phenomenon has resulted in a transformative shift in the dynamic characteristics of the power system. In this context, the analysis of power system stability has evolved beyond categories of rotor angle, frequency, and voltage. It now encompasses the assessment of “converter-driven stability” and “resonance stability” to account for the impacts of fast-responding power electronic devices on electromagnetic transients (EMTs) [3]. The stability of fast interactive converter drives is mainly affected by power electronics, and one non-negligible impact of power electronics integration is the increase of high-order harmonics [4], [5], [6]. Hence, it is necessary to develop high-performance simulation models for EMT studies [7].

In EMT simulation, converter modeling stands out as a primary focus. Balancing sufficient accuracy and efficiency remains the key to converter modeling. Presently, commercial simulation software mainly adopts the two-value-resistor ($R_{on}/R_{off}$) model and the L/C-based associated discrete circuit (ADC) model to construct converter models. However, the former is difficult to extend to high-frequency small-step or large-scale simulations due to its low simulation efficiency, while the latter is limited by the simulation time step and may cause spurious harmonic problems [8].

A desired simulation model should combine sufficient simulation accuracy with high computational efficiency in the target simulation scenario. High accuracy ensures the precise representation of dynamic responses, while high efficiency supports fast simulation of high-frequency or large-scale converter-based systems. The average-value model (AVM) technique is widely adopted to help meet these requirements in system-level dynamic analysis [9], [10]. Lian et al. [11] and Horiuchi et al. [12] proposed time average methods for EMT simulations. Compared to detailed models, AVMs consume fewer computational resources and provide sufficient accuracy for large-signal time-domain simulations and small-signal frequency-domain impedance analysis [13], [14], [15].

The advancement of power electronics technologies and the advent of next-generation power semiconductor devices have led to increasingly stringent accuracy demands for EMT simulations. Despite progress in AVM techniques, the neglect of harmonic components compared to detailed models continues to compromise performance in certain scenarios. Bacha et al. [16] systematically analyze the discrepancies between average state variables of state-space models (SSMs) and those of state-space AVMs. Moreover, models based on the dynamic phasor method [17], [18], [19] and the harmonic state-space method [20], [21], [22] have been proposed. Nevertheless, the computational