Received 7 June 2020; revised 22 July 2020 and 2 August 2020; accepted 10 August 2020. Date of publication 13 August 2020; date of current version 23 August 2020. The review of this article was arranged by Associate Editor Zhixiang Zou.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/OJPEL.2020.3016296

## Hierarchical Device-Level Modular Multilevel Converter Modeling for Parallel and Heterogeneous Transient Simulation of HVDC Systems
**NING LIN** (Member, IEEE), **RUIMIN ZHU** (Member, IEEE), AND **VENKATA DINAVAHI** (Fellow, IEEE)
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta T6G 2V4, Canada
**CORRESPONDING AUTHOR:** NING LIN (e-mail: ning3@ualberta.ca)
*This work was supported by the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC).*

**ABSTRACT** System-level electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation of large-scale power converters with high-order nonlinear semiconductor switch models remains a challenge albeit it is essential for design preview. In this work, a multi-layer hierarchical modeling methodology is proposed for high-performance computing of the modular multilevel converter involving device-level IGBT/diode models. The computational burden induced by converter scale and model complexity is dramatically alleviated following the proposal of topological reconfiguration and network equivalence, which create a substantial number of identical circuit units that facilitate massively parallel processing on the graphics processing unit (GPU), using the kernel-based single-instruction multi-threading computing architecture. As the DC system brings significant inhomogeneity which dilutes parallelism, heterogeneous computing is investigated and the computational tasks are properly assigned to CPU and GPU to fully exploit their respective features. The separation of nonlinear device-level models from the rest of the system enables multi-rate implementation for further efficiency enhancement since the two parts allow distinct time-steps. A remarkable acceleration of over 50 times is achieved by the hybrid CPU/GPU platform over conventional CPU simulation, and the validity of the proposed modeling and computing method is confirmed by commercial EMT tools ANSYS/Simplorer and PSCAD/EMTDC.

**INDEX TERMS** Device-level modeling, electromagnetic transient, graphics processing unit, high-performance computing, high-voltage direct current, modular multilevel converter, parallel processing.

## I. INTRODUCTION
The electromagnetic transients (EMTs) of semiconductor switches in a power converter are of increasing concern due to the need to develop efficacious control and protection strategies, and consequently, intensive tests are conducted during the design stage to ensure their safe operation once the converter is commissioned [1], [2]. Prior to prototype tests, commercial simulation tools with detailed nonlinear device-level models such as Pspice and Saber are frequently resorted to for preliminary studies [3]–[7], which offer a comprehensive insight into the converter operation status that aids a proper selection of devices.

Nevertheless, detailed full-scale power converter modeling is still mandatory for design purposes and accurate system interaction study. Some alternatives were proposed in an endeavor to reveal more device-level information, such as the curve-fitting model, which divides the overall IGBT switching waveform into multiple piecewise linear segments, a few discrete numbers exhibiting nonlinearity or some continuous curves whose duration could be automatically adjusted according to several parameters [11]–[14]. Based on these models, the power consumption can be estimated under normal operation. The fact that curve-fitting models are merely a rough approximation, rather than a substitution, of a power semiconductor switch and therefore could not reveal its exact spontaneous behaviors under various operating conditions in the EMT program manifests the significance of nonlinear high-order IGBT models [15], [16].

The MMC’s sheer scale also exacerbates the processors’ burden, even though simpler device-level models are adopted in the simulation, due to a huge submodule (SM) quantity that requires repeated calculations conducted in a sequential manner on the CPU, which is dominant in current commercial EMT-type solvers [17]–[19]. Therefore, focuses are diverted to multi-core CPU that supports parallel processing algorithms [20]. The graphics processing unit (GPU) is emerging in the massively parallel computation of electrical systems, and a remarkable speedup is desirable in some cases where an explicit homogeneity prevails [21], [22]. On the contrary, the CPU outperforms its many-core counterpart when the system is highly inhomogeneous, considering the latter processor has a lower clock frequency. As a result, for a complex system such as the MMC-based multi-terminal DC system which possesses both homogeneity and inhomogeneity, neither pure CPU or GPU could achieve the maximum efficiency.

In this work, a CPU/GPU co-simulation platform is proposed as a general solution for simulating complex device-level electrical systems, noticing that nowadays GPU is quite common in a workstation or a personal computer.

**FIGURE 1.** Physics-based IGBT modeling: (a) Nonlinear high-order model, (b) discrete time-domain EMT companion circuit.

## II. HIGH-ORDER NONLINEAR IGBT MODEL
### A. MATHEMATICAL DESCRIPTION
### 1) BASIC STATIC MODEL
The IGBT physical structure determines that it can be deemed as a metal-oxide-semiconductor field-effect transistor (MOSFET) sharing its drain with the base of a bipolar junction transistor (BJT), as shown in Fig. 1(a). The classical Schichman-Hodges model [23] is used to describe the N-channel MOSFET static characteristics in 3 different regions, namely the