# Hierarchical Modeling Scheme for High-Speed Electromagnetic Transient (EMT) Simulations of Power Electronic Transformers
Moke Feng, Chenxiang Gao, Jiangping Ding, Hui Ding, Member, IEEE, Jianzhong Xu*, Senior Member, IEEE, and Chengyong Zhao*, Senior Member, IEEE

**Abstract:** The extensive application of the power electronic transformers (PET) in power systems poses a challenge as the accurate and high-speed electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation of PET has been a critical issue. The computational time of the detailed EMT simulation of PET on EMT programs is unacceptable, due to the large electrical node count, microsecond-range simulation steps, high switching frequency of the devices and transformers. This paper proposes a hierarchical modeling scheme for PET. Unlike the existing modeling methods, the proposed technique recursively decreases the dimension order of the admittance matrix to obtain the generalized Norton equivalent of each phase leg. The final admittance matrix overlaid onto the external system admittance matrix has a dimension order of magnitude remarkably smaller than that of the unreduced structure. By comparison with a detailed EMT model of a medium-voltage dc (MVDC) system, the performance of the proposed scheme has been assessed in PSCAD/EMTDC under various working conditions. With negligible loss of accuracy, approximately one to two orders of magnitude speedup over a straightforward EMT program is achieved.

## I. INTRODUCTION
Power electronic transformer (PET), also refers to as high-frequency isolated modular converter, solid state transformer (SST), or smart transformer (ST) [1], [2], is a new type of power electronic equipment that incorporates power electronic devices and high-frequency transformers [3]-[5]. PET is capable to realize the transformation of multiple voltage levels, electrical isolation, power regulation and control, and provide access for renewable energies [6]. These advantages make PET become the key link of ac/dc hybrid distribution network [7]. A typical cascaded H-bridge-type dual active bridge (CHB-DAB) based PET illustrated in Fig. 1 includes three phase legs (PL) each with dozens of cascaded connected CHB-DABs, which is also known as power module (PM) [8]. One PM consists of a “level”. Each level is a strict two-port circuit, of which the connection pattern is input-series-output-parallel (ISOP). In order to analyze the characteristics of PET systems, electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulations are necessary [9], [10]. EMT simulation is a tool to analyze the electromagnetic transient and associated insulation issues. With EMT simulation software, any network which consists of interconnections of resistances, inductances, capacitances, single and multiphase $\pi$-circuits, distributed-parameter lines and certain other elements can be solved [11]. EMT simulation represents and solves differential equations in the time domain. Solutions are calculated based on a fixed time step, and its program structure allows for the representation of control systems, either with or without electromagnetic [12]. Although there are validated commercial EMT simulation software, like the MATLAB, PLECS, PSIM and PSCAD/EMTDC, achieving a fast and accurate simulation of PETs with numerous PMs is still a great challenge. It is because that in PET systems, the inversion of ultra-high-order admittance matrix is calculated in each time-step, and microsecond-simulation step is required due to the high switching frequency of the power electronic devices and transformers. The computational time of the fully detailed EMT simulation of PET is unacceptable [13], [14].

*This work was supported in part by National Key R&D Program of China under grant 2018YFB0904600 and in part by National Natural Science Foundation of China (51607065).*
*M. Feng, C Gao, J. Ding, J. Xu, and C. Zhao are with the State Key Labora*