# High Efficiency Modeling of Multi-Layer Cascaded Dual-Active-Bridge (DAB) Units on Real-time Simulator
Yi Qi1, Hui Ding1, Sherry Shi1, Yi Zhang1 and Aniruddha Gole2
1 RTDS Technologies Inc., Winnipeg, Canada
2 Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada
Email: {yi.qi, hui.ding, sherry.shi, yi.zhang}@amek.com, aniruddha.gole@umanitoba.ca

## Abstract
Modeling Dual-Active-Bridge (DAB) topologies in a real time simulator presents challenge due to the high switching frequency and the substantial number of submodules. This requires both the firing pulses’ precision and high-speed matrix computation. In this paper, an aggregated model is proposed for a typical Dual-Active-Bridge (DAB) circuit using the state-space circuit approach. It accurately implements the duty cycle of the firing pulses and consequently enhances accuracy. The two H-bridge converters and the AC transformer with the blocking capacitors are consolidated into a single-unit. To address scenarios involving multi-level cascaded DAB units with input series output parallel (ISOP), the multiple single-unit blocks are further packed into an aggregated model. Compared to using single-unit models for the cascaded topology, our developed aggregated model not only conserves electrical nodes, but also the calculation time for history terms, resulting in reduced hardware resources. The simulation timestep can be efficiently reduced, resulting in an outcome of better precise and the capability to model much higher switching frequencies. The proposed aggregated model can be widely applied in hundred kHz, and the resolution of the firing pulse depends on the timestep since they can only be issued at the start of each timestep. Even when the timestep is as small as $1.0\,\mu\text{s}$, firing inaccuracies can result in a significant amount of DC offset component in the AC transformer current.

## Introduction
The Universal Converter Model (UCM) approach was introduced in [5] to model the power electronic converters with descriptor state space equations. It allows for the consideration of a firing pulse being applied within a timestep. This is often the case with external control hardware, which generates firing pulses with a very fine time resolution. The on/off status of any of the converter’s switches does not remain unchanged during the timestep. Instead, an average value over the timestep is taken to accurately replicate switching behaviors. This approach, referred to as “Improved Firing Pulse (IFP)”, offers accuracy comparable to the...