# A Heterogeneous Multiscale Method for Efficient Simulation of Power Systems with Inverter-Based Resources

Kaiyang Huang, Student Member, IEEE, Min Xiong, Member, IEEE, Yang Liu, Member, IEEE, Kai Sun, Fellow, IEEE.

**Abstract**—As inverter-based resources (IBRs) penetrate power systems, the dynamics become more complex, exhibiting multiple timescales, including electromagnetic transient (EMT) dynamics of power electronic controllers and electromechanical dynamics of synchronous generators. Consequently, the power system model becomes highly stiff, posing a challenge for efficient simulation using existing methods that focus on dynamics within a single timescale. This paper proposes a Heterogeneous Multiscale Method for highly efficient multi-timescale simulation of a power system represented by its EMT model. The new method alternates between the microscopic EMT model of the system and an automatically reduced macroscopic model, varying the step size accordingly to achieve significant acceleration while maintaining accuracy in both fast and slow dynamics of interests. It also incorporates a semi-analytical solution method to enable a more adaptive variable-step mechanism. The new simulation method is illustrated using a two-area system and is then tested on a detailed EMT model of the IEEE 39-bus system.

**Index Terms**—Heterogeneous Multiscale Method, differential transformation, variable-step solver, electromagnetic transient simulation, time-domain simulation, inverter-based resource.

## I. INTRODUCTION

INVERTER-based resources (IBRs), including renewables and energy storage systems, are rapidly increasing their presence in power grids worldwide for low-carbon, clean electricity generation. This trend is challenging the traditional dominance of conventional power plants. However, as IBRs become more prevalent in power grids, the analysis and control of power grid dynamics become more complex due to their increased timescales, as well as the high dimensionality and nonlinearity of power grid models. During contingencies, power grid dynamics can span a wide spectrum, from electromagnetic transient (EMT) dynamics with power electronic controllers of IBRs in microseconds to quasi-steady-state grid behaviors in minutes or hours to balance demand and supply against uncertainties of renewables. These dynamics are respectively threats from multiple timescales. However, simulating a real-world power grid with high IBR penetration poses significant challenges to the accuracy and efficiency requirements. If its dynamics of all timescales, such as EMT dynamics and electromechanical oscillations, are taken into account, this will result in a large number of nonlinear ordinary differential equations (ODEs) with a high stiffness ratio. Thus, a step size in microseconds is often required for numerical stability. Additionally, simulating a series of quasi-steady-state behaviors of the grid mixed with inverter controls and inter-area oscillations for an extended period of tens of minutes will result in an extremely slow simulation due to a huge computational burden. Therefore, the best practice of multi-timescale simulations today for power system engineers is still co-simulation, which defines interfaces between EMT models, transient stability models, and quasi-steady-state models and co-simulates them iteratively using different simulation tools, with each tool focusing on a portion of the grid in one timescale while reducing the rest [2], [3]. However, it is still an open question how to determine the interface boundaries. Furthermore, the overall convergence, accuracy, and time performance for such co-simulations still pose major technical challenges [4].

Fully detailed simulations such as EMT simulations of an interconnected power grid as a single, nonlinear stiff system to capture its dynamics in all timescales are highly complex tasks [5]. In practice, power system engineers typically focus the modeling and simulating a utility-scale grid on a specific timescale for, e.g., EMT controls, transient stability and quasi-steady-state analysis, depending on the purpose of the study. When EMT simulations are required for the integration studies of IBRs, a reduced EMT model can be offline developed, which maintains details only for a specific region of concern, while the rest of the grid is either equivalenced or ignored beyond its boundary [4]–[6]. Simulating of a power system using