# Large step size electromagnetic transient simulations by matrix transformation-based shifted-frequency phasor models

**Xiaohui Ye**$^{1,2}$, **Yong Tang**$^3$, **Dewu Shu**$^1$
1. Key Lab of Control, Power Transmission and Conversion, Department of Electrical Engineering, Shanghai Jiaotong University, Shanghai, People's Republic of China
2. Electrical Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing, People's Republic of China
3. China EPRI (CEPRI), Beijing, People's Republic of China

*E-mail: shudewu@sjtu.edu.cn*

**Abstract:** To evaluate and improve the performances of control and protection strategies for large-scale AC grids, simulation models that can adopt a much larger time-step, provide instantaneous and wide frequency-band phasor values simultaneously are desirable. However, the traditional electromagnetic transient (EMT) model is numerically expensive and the transient stability (TS) model only preserves low-frequency dynamics. To resolve these issues, the shifted frequency phasor (SFP) modelling is generalised based on specific matrix transformations and SFP models of typical components in large-scale AC grids are derived hereafter. Unlike traditional models, the SFP models can produce instantaneous and wide frequency-band phasor waveforms simultaneously, while the latter matches the envelopes of the former exactly. Moreover, the simulation efficiency is dramatically improved by adopting a much larger time-step. The performance concerning the accuracy and efficiency is compared with the traditional EMT and TS models by simulating a practical large-scale AC grid under different scenarios.

## 1 Introduction
Dynamics of electromagnetic transients (EMTs), especially wide frequency-band interactions between individual components are important to evaluate and improve the performances of control and protection strategies for large-scale AC grids [1, 2]. Due to the non-linear dynamics of the generator (groups) and frequency-dependent dynamics of transmission lines, AC voltage and current signals contain wide frequency-band components with fast amplitude and phase variations, especially at the occurrence or clearance of the faults. Therefore, it is highly desirable to develop numerically accurate and efficient simulation models that are capable of (i) adopting a much larger time-step; (ii) emulating electromagnetic and electro-mechanical transients for a wide frequency range. Many attempts have been made to improve the efficiency of the target large-scale AC grids with satisfied accuracy, which are categorised as follows:

(i) Trapezoidal-derived EMT simulations, e.g. EMTP-RV [3], PSCAD/EMTDC: the traditional EMT model, derived by Trapezoidal algorithm, is generally considered the most accurate simulation tool to capture wide frequency-band dynamics. However, the computational burden is sharply increased by its small time-step (as small as 50 μs), which makes it computationally burdensome to simulate large-scale AC grids. Although several techniques, such as system equivalents [4], parallel processing [5], multi-rate simulations [6] etc. have been proposed to accelerate the simulation speed, the overall efficiency is still unsatisfactory for practical power systems. EMT models can only trace the instantaneous values of all waveforms. Unfortunately, they cannot produce wide frequency-band phasor waveforms simultaneously, which is important to demonstrate wide-band frequency interactions of AC grids.

(ii) Transient stability (TS) based simulations, e.g. PSS/E, PSD- only low-frequency dynamics. In other words, the high-frequency dynamics, which are aroused by non-linear characteristics of generators and frequency-dependent characteristics of transmission lines, are totally neglected.

(iii) TS and EMT Hybrid simulations [7, 8]: The TS and EMT hybrid simulations partition the whole system into separated TS and EMT subsystems, respectively. Only wide-band dynamics inside EMT subsystems are captured. However, the interface model limits the frequency band under the fundamental frequency. Consequently, wide frequency-band interactions between different subsystems cannot be simulated by the interface model. Moreover, the overall simulation accuracy of hybrid simulations relies highly on the partitioning strategy and the precision of the interface model. Therefore, it is not an easy task to guarantee the accuracy of hybrid simulations at any fault scenarios and system configurations.

(iv) State-space derived dynamic phasor (DP) simulations [9, 10]: These methods decompose time-varying voltage and current signals into harmonics of different frequencies based on state-space equations. Although the accuracy can be improved by including more orders of DPs, the computational burden will be dramatically increased. For example, even if only two frequencies are considered, the number of equations will be expanded twice. Moreover, DP representations of large-scale AC grids are quite complicated or even inapplicable when the system contains non-linear or frequency-dependent components.

(v) Nodal analysis-based shifted frequency phasor (SFP) simulations [11–16]: These methods, which are also named as shifted frequency analysis (SFA) [11, 12] or frequency-adaptive simulation of transients (FASTs) [16], stems from signal processing theory and the Hilbert transformation. It should be noted that although several typical components based on the SFA concept have been propose