## Impact of solenoid effects on series impedance of three-core armoured cables✰
A.I. Chrysochos a, *, D. Chatzipetros a, C.K. Traianos a, K. Bitsi a, J. Morales b, H. Xue c, J. Mahseredjian c
a Hellenic Cables, Athens, Greece
b PGSTech, Montreal, Canada
c Polytechnique Montreal, Montreal, Canada

**Keywords:** Armour, Impedance, Modelling, Submarine cables, Solenoid, Transients

**Abstract:** Cables used in offshore windfarms are usually three-core (3C) with metallic armour. The series impedance at power frequency is necessary to estimate cable steady-state and fault condition performances, e.g., by calculating sequence impedances. The impedance at higher frequencies is also needed for transient analysis. Three-dimensional (3D) effects, being inevitably present in 3C cables, such as twisting effects, may be treated in a two-and-a-half-dimensional (2.5D) fashion. Although fast, this approach cannot account for the full 3D effects since it ignores solenoid effects. Thus, the calculated impedance may be inaccurate, potentially compromising the cable performance. 3D models based on finite element method are developed in this paper to consider the full 3D effects. The impedance is derived at power and higher frequencies. The proposed 3D method is evaluated against 2.5D methods. Solenoid effects appear to have a remarkable influence on impedance. Design aspects, such as the magnetic permeability and the pitch angle of the armour, are also examined. Finally, the effect on modal propagation characteristics is highlighted and the transient response is simulated.

✰ Paper submitted to the International Conference on Power Systems Transients (IPST2023) in Thessaloniki, Greece, June 12–15, 2023.
* Corresponding author. E-mail address: achrysochos@hellenic-cables.com (A.I. Chrysochos).

## 1. Introduction
OFFSHORE wind farms have grown rapidly in recent years and the penetration of offshore generation is expected to increase even more. Three-core (3C) submarine cables, being necessary to transmit the power generated offshore to the mainland, are essential for such projects: the cost of these export cables is crucial for the economic viability of wind farms, while optimising their design is the only way to reduce their cost.

The calculation of the series impedance in frequency-domain is required for the proper cable design. Considering power frequency studies, the impedance allows for the determination of sequence components, which are necessary in power flow and system protection studies. Calculating the induced losses at power frequency under normal operation results in a better estimation of the cable current rating. The corresponding induced voltages at power frequency under fault conditions allow also to optimise the design of cable jackets. Moreover, the calculation of the series impedance at high frequencies is important to evaluate the cable performance in transient phenomena and is necessary for insulation coordination studies.

In contrast to underground cables, the calculation of series impedance matrix in submarine cables is challenging due to the complexity in their geometry [1]. Three power cores are twisted forming a helix. The armour wires, covering the power cores, are twisted forming a different helix, typically of larger lay length than power cores for mechanical reasons. Thus, a complex electromagnetic problem, being three-dimensional (3D) in nature, is to be solved. The twisting direction of armour wires may or may not differ from that of power cores, with the cable being of contralay or unilay design, respectively. Export cables are typically contralay to enhance their mechanical performance: keeping the two helices in different direction makes the cable torsionally balanced. In cases where submarine cables are installed in shallow water depths and the mechanical performance is not so crucial, export cables may also be unilay. Although the armour wires are helically laid in close proximity, they do not touch each other. Furthermore, the bitumen typically applied for corrosion protection on and in-between them offers an extra insulating layer. The lay length of power cores cannot ever be identical with that of armour wires, even in the unilay design. Hence, the electromotive force locally induced in wires is cancelled out over a complete periodicity, resulting in zero net circulating current along each wire [2].

Calculating the series impedance based on electromagnetic transient (EMT)-like software is a common practice for submarine cables. Traditionally, in the majority of cable constants routines, the analytical expressions used rely mainly on the work done by [3] and assume pipe-type cables. They employ Bessel functions to capture skin effect in all metallic components and account for the effect of magnetic pipe, while also consider the contribution of lossy earth by appropriate earth-return terms [4]. However, parallel, straight conductors are only assumed and proximity effects, which are important when cable cores computational performance and accuracy are reported.

This paper investigates the impact of solenoid effects on the calculation of the series impedance in 3C armoured export cables. An efficient 3D FEM model representing the inductive mechanism is employed, taking fully into account the longitudinal field component. Special techniques, which ensure the continuity of magnetic field at the ends and exploit the rotated periodicity of the cable, are also employed to avoid any erroneous end effects. The so-called JS method [5] is combined with 3D FEM to derive the full series impedance matrix. By simple manipulations, the effect of the lossy stratified earth is included, which is first calculated based on 2D models. Export cables with magnetic and non-magnetic armour are considered, while the effect of lay length is also examined. The results by 3D FEM are compared to those calculated by other m