## Impedance Based Stability Analysis of the Multi-terminal Cascaded Hybrid HVDC System
Ruiting Xu, Student Member, IEEE, Qin Jiang, Member, IEEE, Baohong Li, Yikui Liu, Tianqi Liu, Senior Member, IEEE, Frede Blaabjerg, Fellow, IEEE, and Peng Wang, Fellow, IEEE

**Abstract—**The cascaded hybrid high voltage direct current (HVDC) combines the strengths of the line commutated converter (LCC) and the modular multilevel converter (MMC) in the long distance large capacity power transmission. However, its distributed muti-terminal grid structure raises the complexity of the whole system drastically. To clarify the oscillation mechanism of the multi-terminal cascaded hybrid HVDC system, utilizing the merits of the impedance model, this paper proposes an impedance based stability analysis method, which decomposes stability analysis problem into a hierarchical structure. In addition, an equivalent single-input single-output (SISO) impedance based method is proposed together for oscillation propagation analysis, which could depict how the oscillation spread from the perspective of the physical impedance network. Oscillation suppressing methods including impedance reshaping and parameter retuning could be tailored with the instruction of the impedance based stability analysis and thereby efficiency is improved considerably. The analytical results and the control method are verified through the electromagnetic transient simulation with practical data.

**Index Terms—**Impedance stability, cascaded hybrid HVDC, sensitivity analysis, propagation, impedance reshaping.

## I. INTRODUCTION
High voltage direct current (HVDC) has become the mainstream technology for long-distance, high-capacity power transmission. Based on the type of converters, HVDC projects can be categorized as line commutated converter based HVDC (LCC-HVDC) and the voltage source converter based HVDC (VSC-HVDC), in which the former is more applied in the case of long distance and large capacity transmission, but potentially introduces the risk of commutation failure on the AC side [1], [2], while the latter can avoid the risk, but raises the investment cost as well as the complexity of DC fault handling [3], [4].

Received 4 November 2024; revised 5 March 2025; accepted 8 April 2025. Date of publication 15 April 2025; date of current version 19 May 2025. This work was supported by Sichuan Science and Technology Program under Grant 2024NSFSC0865 and Grant 2025NSFSC2037. Paper no. TPWRD-01662-2024. (Corresponding author: Qin Jiang.)

Ruiting Xu, Qin Jiang, Baohong Li, Yikui Liu, and Tianqi Liu are with the College of Electrical Engineering, Sichuan University, Chengdu 610065, China (e-mail: xuruiting322@163.com; jiangqin_jq@126.com; scu_lbh@163.com; yikuiliu89@outlook.com; tqliu@scu.edu.cn).
Frede Blaabjerg is with the Institute of Energy Technology, Aalborg University, 9220 Aalborg, Denmark (e-mail: fbl@et.aau.dk).
Peng Wang is with the School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Power Division, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore 639798 (e-mail: epwang@ntu.edu.sg).

Fig. 1. Layout of the multi-terminal cascaded hybrid HVDC system.

Cascaded hybrid HVDC, as an advancement, could combine the merits of LCC-HVDC and VSC-HVDC, while avoiding their shortcomings [5], [6], [7]. As shown in Fig. 1, a pilot cascaded hybrid HVDC project in China [8], [9] has its receiving ends connected to the AC grid in a distributed way, forming a hybrid station that contains one LCC station and three modular multi-level converters (MMC). The three MMCs can not only undertake the long distance power transmission from the sending end, but also form a DC grid on the receiving end for inter area connection whenever required.

With the intensive configuration of the HVDC converters, the cascaded hybrid HVDC system is prone to the stability issue in a wide frequency range [10], [11]. To this end, efforts are devoted for analyzing the stability of cascaded hybrid HVDC systems based on either the state space models [12], [13] or the impedance models [14]. However, references [12], [13], [14] consider only one MMC on the receiving end with a simplified ac grid structure. The multi-terminal cascaded hybrid HVDC contains three MMCs of different control modes, which contribute to the system stability in different ways. In addition, tie lines of the AC and DC grids can bring in complex interaction between the converters and influence propagation routes of the oscillation. To clarify influence of these factors, it is necessary to model the multi-terminal structure of the hybrid cascaded HVDC.

The impedance based stability analysis methods have the merits of being compact, modularizable, and particularly appropriate for the black-box or grey-box models provided by the converter vendors [15], [16], such as being applied on the cascaded hybrid HVDC systems. For systems that contain multiple HVDC converters in a grid structure, multi-input multi-output (MIMO) impedance models are developed for their modularized description [17], [18]. References [19], [20], [21] analyze the stability of the hybrid AC/DC grid with the frequency-domain modal analysis (FMA) method. However, this method obtains the eigenvalues of the system through solving the analytical admittance function, which prerequisites the knowledge of converters’ internal dynamics. By contrast, references [22], [23], [24] analyze the stability problem of the multi-terminal HVDCs with the MIMO impedance based method

**TABLE I**  
CONTROL MODES OF THE CONVERTERS