# Including Magnetic Saturation in Voltage-Behind-Reactance Induction Machine Model for EMTP-Type Solution
**Liwei Wang**, Student Member, IEEE, and **Juri Jatskevich**, Senior Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—A voltage-behind-reactance (VBR) machine model has been recently proposed for the electro-magnetic transient programs (EMTP)-type simulation programs. The VBR model greatly improves numerical accuracy and efficiency compared with the traditional $dq$ and phase-domain (PD) models. This paper extends the previous research and presents an approach to include magnetic saturation into the VBR induction machine model. The presented method takes into account the $dq$ axes static and dynamic cross saturation, whereas the nonlinear magnetic characteristic is represented using a piecewise-linear method that is suitable for the EMTP solution approach. Case studies verify the new saturable VBR model and show that it has improved numerical stability and accuracy even at large time steps.

**Index Terms**—Electro-magnetic transient programs (EMTP), induction machine, magnetic saturation, piecewise-linear approximation, voltage-behind-reactance model.

## I. INTRODUCTION
Representing magnetic saturation in induction machine models greatly improves the modeling accuracy for both steady states and transients. Depending on the modeling fidelity and applications, various models and approaches have been proposed to represent the machine magnetic saturation. To depict very fine geometrical/structural details and material characteristics, finite element (FE) models [1] and magnetic equivalent circuit (MEC) models [2], [3] are often used. For system studies, numerous induction machine models have been proposed to represent main magnetizing flux path saturation [4]–[7], leakage flux path saturation [8], [9], the deep-bar effects [10], [11], etc. Higher-order $dq$ models capable of predicting the magnetic saturation and machine-inverter interaction at high switching frequency have been proposed in [12] and [13].

The electro-magnetic transient programs (EMTP) [14] are often used for studying power systems transients, wherein the classical full-order machine models are typically considered sufficient [15], [16]. In the EMTP community, the magnetic saturation phenomena have also been included in various machine models [17]–[21] and software packages [22]–[25]. Examples of saturable models include the ATP’s universal machine model [17] and MicroTran model Type 50 [18]. Other commonly-used EMTP software packages such as PSCAD/EMTDC [22] and EMTP-RV [24] also include saturable models of induction machine.

These programs typically use built-in $dq$ models and permit saturation of the main magnetizing flux and sometimes even leakage fluxes. In EMTP, the nonlinear magnetic saturation characteristic is often represented using a piecewise-linear approximation. Based upon this approach, a very efficient non-iterative solution of the machine-network equations may be achieved.

The model formulations commonly used with the EMTP solution approach include the $dq$ [26]–[28] or the phase-domain (PD) [29], [30] models. Recently, the so-called voltage-behind-reactance (VBR) models have been proposed in [31]–[34]. The VBR models provide many desirable properties, e.g., direct model interface with the external network, greatly improved numerical accuracy and simulation efficiency. Interested reader will find discussions and studies revealing the properties of VBR models in [31]–[35] and the references therein. Inspired by advantageous properties of the magnetically linear induction machine VBR model [34], this paper is focused on formulating a saturable VBR model for the EMTP-type solution. Here, we extend the previous work and make the following contributions.
- The proposed approach is derived to include the $dq$ axes static and dynamic cross-saturation phenomenon based on the saturation of the main magnetizing flux, which is typically adequate for most power systems studies with induction machines. If required, the saturation can be readily extended to include the leakage flux if such refinement is necessary.
- The piecewise-linear approach is utilized to include the magnetic saturation characteristic into the VBR model. However, the method can include arbitrary number of piecewise-linear segments as to approach the smooth saturation characteristic with any desirable accuracy.
- The new model is compared with several established models to verify its correctness and demonstrate its numerical advantages such as accuracy and CPU time.

**Manuscript received** September 10, 2008; revised June 24, 2009. First published November 24, 2009; current version published April 21, 2010. This work was supported in part by the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council (NSERC) of Canada under the Discovery Grant, and in part by the Educational Grant from British Columbia Transmission Corporation and BC Hydro. Paper no. TPWRS-00744-2008.

The authors are with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z4, Canada (e-mail: liweiw@ece.ubc.ca; jurij@ece.ubc.ca).