# Inclusion of Frequency-Dependent Soil Parameters in Transmission-Line Modeling
**Antonio Carlos Siqueira de Lima, Member, IEEE, and Carlos Portela, Life Senior Member, IEEE**

**Abstract**—This paper presents an analysis of transmission-line modeling when the soil conductivity and permittivity are treated as frequency dependent. It also presents a methodology to include this particular behavior on frequency-dependence realization of transmission lines and cables. The frequency-dependent soil parameters can be synthesized with a simple first-order model. It demands only three parameters statistically independent, one being associated with the low-frequency conductivity as obtained in conventional modeling and the other two are a function of the frequency dependence in soil conductivity and permittivity. The new formulas used for the ground return impedances for overhead lines and underground cables are presented. Instead of using an analytical approximation of the infinite integrals involved, a numerical approximation using a Gauss quadrature technique was implemented. These expressions can be understood as an extension of the well-known Carson and Pollaczek formulas. Three distinct cases are presented in order to asses the impact of frequency-dependent soil parameters with respect to the asymmetry of the circuit. The effect of frequency dependence in soil parameters is evaluated using frequency and time domain. In the frequency domain, modal analysis is applied to assess the overall impact in the ground mode propagation. To obtain the time-domain response, the line was modeled in the frequency domain using a phase-domain approach and a numerical Laplace transform was applied.

**Index Terms**—Electromagnetic transient analysis, power cables, soil measurements, transmission lines.

Manuscript received August 23, 2004; revised March 28, 2006. This work was supported in part by “Fundação de Amparo à Pesquisa Carlos Chagas,” FAPERJ, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil and in part by “Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico,” CNPq, Brazil. Paper no. TPWRD-00338-2004.

The authors are with the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro 21945-970, Brazil (e-mail: acsl@dee.ufrj.br; portelac@ism.com.br).

Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TPWRD.2006.881582

## I. INTRODUCTION

There has been a considerable evolution in the modeling of frequency dependence of overhead transmission lines and underground cables. Although the frequency dependence of the ground and conductors impedances can be more easily dealt with in frequency-domain analysis, these days there are some models that can accurately take into account the frequency dependence in time-domain analysis. Independent of whether one uses the time-domain or frequency-domain approach, one point of paramount importance remains—the accuracy of the line parameters, namely, the impedance per unit of length and the admittance per unit of length. The former involves the skin effect on conductors and ground. Usually the ground parameters are poorly known as they have a wide range variation with some random phenomena, such as seasonal changes and the amount of water retained. Semlyen [1] presented a methodology to quantify the effect of the variation of soil resistivity $\rho$, using the analytical relation between $\rho$ and the line inductance, when the soil is treated as a good conductor and the complex plane approximation is assumed [2]. A recent study [3] shows, however, that except in the case of soil ionization, the soil behaves linearly although its conductivity $\sigma$ and permittivity $\varepsilon$ are significantly frequency dependent [4]. Therefore, the good conductor assumption does not hold for a wide frequency range. For instance, in the lightning frequency range, above hundreds of kilohertz, $\omega\varepsilon$ can be of the same order of magnitude of $\sigma$. Furthermore, the usual assumption as a pure conductive soil is not suitable for induced effects and electromagnetic compatibility (EMC), including equipment and people safety [5].

An analysis of the influence of frequency-dependent soil parameters was presented in [4] using a quasimodes approach [6]. The frequency-dependent soil parameters were considered using the complex plane method where the ideal soil is at a depth $d$ below actual soil in a procedure similar to the one presented in [2] but now replacing $\sigma$ by $\sigma + j\omega\varepsilon$. This is fully justified by the fact that the parameter $\gamma$ appears directly in the frequency-domain Maxwell equations. So any correct result in the assumption of $\sigma \gg \omega\varepsilon$ may be used for $\sigma$ by replacing $\sigma$ by $\sigma + j\omega\varepsilon$. For frequencies up to some megahertz, this usually gives results close to those obtained with the Carson integral formula (also replacing $\sigma$ by $\sigma + j\omega\varepsilon$) and mathematical manipulation is faster and easier. Such formulation corresponds to a first-order approach of asymptotic development of the Carson integral formula and, in most cases, gives an acceptable error. However, there may be cases where the error is larger, for instance, for high-resistivity ground, the maximum error is more than 10%. Therefore, in the present work, a stable and accurate numerical approximation of the Carson and Pollaczek integral is used. Another approximation used in [4] is the usage of a time-domain model based on modal domain with a constant transformation matrix, namely the quasimodes approach.

In the present work, we try to overcome both limitations as the line is modeled in phase coordinates in the frequency domain, and the time-domain responses are obtained via a numerical Laplace transform. In an attempt to produce a thorough analysis of the impact of soil parameters as a function of the asymmetry of the transformation matrix, three configurations are considered, namely: a single horizontal circuit, a double vertical circuit, and an underground cable circuit.

## II. GROUND MODELING

When the soil is treated as a conductor, as originally developed by Carson for overhead lines and Pollaczek for underground cables...