# Influence of a lossy ground on the lightning performance of overhead transmission lines

Rafael Alipio a, *, Alberto De Conti b, Naiara Duarte c, Farhad Rachidi c

a Department of Electrical Engineering, Federal Center of Technological Education of Minas Gerais (CEFET-MG), Av. Amazonas, 7675 - Nova Gameleira, Belo Horizonte, MG 30510-000, Brazil
b Department of Electrical Engineering, Federal University of Minas Gerais (UFMG), Belo Horizonte, Brazil
c EMC Laboratory, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (EPFL), Lausanne, Switzerland

* Corresponding author. E-mail address: rafael.alipio@cefetmg.br (R. Alipio).

**Keywords:** Ground-return impedance, Line models, Frequency-dependent soil parameters, Lightning performance of transmission lines

**Abstract:** This paper investigates the impact of incorporating both displacement currents and frequency-dependent soil parameters in the calculation of the ground-return impedance for the determination of the backflashover rate of 138 kV and 230 kV overhead transmission lines due to direct lightning strikes. This is done by considering the Sunde’s formulation for calculating the ground-return impedance, which is incorporated in a time-domain simulator using an alternative implementation of Marti’s transmission line model. The obtained results show that the peak of the lightning overvoltages computed considering Sunde’s formula, along with frequency-dependent soil parameters, leads to higher amplitudes in comparison with those simulated using the classical Carson’s formula, which neglects the frequency dependence of soil parameters and assumes conductive currents in the soil much larger than displacement currents. This effect is more pronounced in high-resistivity soils and leads to an increase in the line backflashover rate within 4-6%, 7-12% and 9-15% for 1000 Ωm, 5000 Ωm and 10000 Ωm soils, respectively, considering 138 kV and 230 kV lines, and assuming a typical median first stroke lightning current. Analyses performed with slow and fast first stroke currents confirm the trend of increase of the backflashover rate with the consideration of Sunde’s formula.

## 1. Introduction

Direct lightning strikes to transmission line (TL) structures or shield wires often result in high overvoltages across insulator strings, which can lead to faults and line outages [1]. This mechanism, called backflashover, corresponds to the main cause of interruptions in lines rated 500 kV or below, especially in the case of lines that cross regions characterized by intense lightning activity and that present unfavorable tower-footing grounding impedance conditions [2,3].

To perform backflashover calculations, the widely accepted time-domain electromagnetic transient (EMT) tools are often used [4–6]. However, in EMT-like tools, the ground-return parameters of overhead lines are typically calculated using Carson’s formulation [7], which neglects displacement currents in the soil and ultimately assumes the soil electrical parameters as frequency independent. These approximations are expected to lead to inaccuracies in the simulation of transients in lines located above poorly conducting soils, transients with high-frequency content, or a combination of both [8–12].

In [13], lightning overvoltages were calculated on an overhead line with the use of the finite-difference time-domain (FDTD) method [14]. This method was used for solving telegrapher’s equations considering frequency-dependent soil parameters and displacement currents in the calculation of the ground return impedance. Simulations of the transient response of the line due to the application of an impulse voltage on the shield wire indicated that the consideration of a frequency-dependent soil affects not only the amplitude but also the waveform of the resulting voltages. The most significant changes were observed on the voltages induced on the phase conductors. It was argued that the observed differences in both amplitude and waveform of the simulated voltages could be important for determining the occurrence or not of insulation breakdown in certain conditions.

The present work constitutes an expanded version of the preliminary analysis presented in [13], in which we further investigate the influence of displacement currents and frequency-dependent soil parameters on the line backflashover rate due to direct lightning strikes. Although such features are included both in the calculation of the tower-footing impedance and in the ground-return impedance of the line, the main goal is to investigate if their influence is relevant for the line modeling in such type of analysis.

Similarly, Fig. 1(b) shows the tower geometry of the 230 kV line, which has one ACSR conductor per phase (RAIL) and two 3/8'' EHS shield wires. The vertical positions of the line cables (in meters) are indicated in the same figure (values within parenthesis are the midspan heights). The insulator strings are composed of 10 and 14 porcelain discs for the 138 kV and 230 kV lines, respectively, with 146 mm spacing and 255 mm diameter. The associated critical flashover overvoltage (CFO) of such insulator strings is 650 kV and 1050 kV, respectively for the 138 kV and

It is worth mentioning that this paper takes an important step forward from the previous papers by the authors [11–13]. In these previous papers, the influence of an accurate computation of the ground-return impedance, including displacement currents and frequency-dependent soil parameters, was evaluated only in terms of the resulting overvoltages on the