# Initializing EMT models of grid forming VSCs in MTDC systems

Ahmad Allabadi $^{a,*}$, Jean Mahseredjian $^{a}$, Keijo Jacobs $^{a}$, Sébastien Dennetière $^{b}$, Ilhan Kocar $^{c}$, Tarek Ould-Bachir $^{a}$

$^{a}$ Department of Electrical Engineering, Polytechnique Montréal, Canada  
$^{b}$ Réseau de Transport d’Electricité, Paris, France  
$^{c}$ Department of Electrical Engineering, Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong Kong  

* Corresponding author. E-mail address: ahmad.allabadi@polymtl.ca (A. Allabadi).

**Keywords:** HVDC, EMT, Offline simulation, MTDC, Initialization

**Abstract:** This paper highlights the importance of proper initialization techniques for simulation model stability and computational efficiency of multi-terminal direct current (MTDC) systems. A steady-state approach is presented for initializing grid-forming voltage source converters (GVSCs). Moreover, for black-box GVSC models, a generic initialization method, called decoupling interface (DI) is proposed. The method is tested on the CIGRE BM4 benchmark using EMTP. Compared to an existing load-flow initialization technique, both initialization methods reduce the complete system initialization time by 6.9 times.

## 1. Introduction

High Voltage Direct Current (HVDC) systems started a new era in efficient power transmission over long distances. Recent innovations in voltage-source converter (VSC) technology have contributed to the increased manageability, reliability, and flexibility of HVDC systems [1]. Multi-Terminal Direct Current (MTDC) networks are engineered to facilitate the collection and seamless integration of remote onshore and offshore renewable energy sources. Additionally, these networks are designed to interconnect different grids and systems, including weak networks or networks with different nominal frequencies [2].

Successful design, operation, and maintenance of MTDC systems hinge on the effective application of simulation techniques and models. Within this context, electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation tools and models are fundamental for the comprehensive simulation of MTDC system [3]. Simulating large-scale systems with intricate models of MTDC converters and inverter-based resources (IBR) can lead to lengthy computation times. Various techniques can be employed to accelerate EMT simulations, such as parallelizing the simulations [4-7], optimizing grid component models with a heavy computational burden [8,9], and utilizing simulation initialization methodologies [10]. Nevertheless, there is a scarcity of literature addressing initialization methods for large-scale AC-DC systems [10,11].

Typically, transient studies for MTDC systems are conducted once a system attains steady-state (SS) in time-domain. However, for medium and large systems, the simulation time required for initialization can become unacceptably lengthy.

The load-flow (LF) solution method [12-17] can be used to automatically initialize complex power systems with various grid components and controls, such as exciters and governors [17]. Challenges arise in the presence of power electronic converters with their complex control systems. While it is possible to initialize converter controls, the necessary calculations can be tedious and are dependent on the system’s topology. In [10], accurate SS analysis and initialization is proposed for the modular multilevel converter (MMC), including its detailed control system. It is a model-based initialization that cannot be used for generic MTDC systems. Another concern is that grid component models might be proprietary and in a black-box form, making their internal details inaccessible. For such models, using analytic initialization is not possible. The authors of [18] proposed a technique for initializing large ac-dc systems that include black-box models. However, it requires determining the Thevenin equivalents for all devices. For large MTDC grid models, such a procedure becomes time-consuming and complex to generalize.

In HVDC systems, the main control mode used for Grid forming VSC (GVSC) is $V/f$ control. It is used for integrating the ac islands into the MTDC network, for collecting renewable power from offshore resources, and for feeding passive loads. In case of multiple GVSCs in the same island, $V/f$ control can be combined with voltage droop [19,20]. On the other hand, in cases of connecting the GVSC with ac grids, a power synchronizing loop, a virtual oscillator, or others can be used [19,21].

This paper presents two methods for the automatic initialization of $V/f$-GVSC connected to an MTDC system and compares them with an existing LF initialization method. The first method, called Control Initialization in SS (CISS), is by performing SS analysis for the GVSC to initialize its outer control system. The second method, known as Decoupling Interface (DI), does not necessitate knowledge of model parameters or access to the internal GVSC control system, apart from an understanding of the outer control mode. Therefore, it can be applied to black-box models. Both proposed methods can achieve fast and stable initialization for interacting VSC and IBR components. The proposed methods are tested on large-scale MTDC grid benchmark model, CIGRE BM4 benchmark using EMTP. Compared to an existing load-flow initialization technique, both initialization methods reduce the complete system initialization time by 6.9 times.

always work when the TDIS is a GVSC, or renewable resource model connected to a GVSC. For instance, consider the TDIS in Fig. 1 which contains a complete wind park model connected to a GVSC in $V/f$ control mode. Both the GVSC and the wind park model are TDISs. Auxiliary voltage sources are included at the GVSC and the wind park (or photovoltaic) terminals. Therefore, once starting the time-domain simulation, the GVSC control (shown in Fig. 2) measures the voltage magnitude, $|V_{ac}|$, seen from the auxiliary source instead of the actual values. Consequently, since the auxiliary source has an amplitude of $|V_{ac}|$ that matches the control setpoint, the error signal