# Interfacing Techniques for Transient Stability and Electromagnetic Transient Programs
**IEEE Task Force on Interfacing Techniques for Simulation Tools**
V. Jalili-Marandi, V. Dinavahi, K. Strunz, J. A. Martinez, and A. Ramirez

**Abstract**—Transient stability (TS) and electromagnetic transient (EMT) programs are widely used simulation tools in power systems, with distinct applications but competing requirements. TS programs are fast which makes them suitable for handling large-scale networks, however, the modeling is not sufficiently detailed. On the other hand, EMT simulators are highly detailed, but limited in speed; consequently, they are used to simulate only small portions of the network. Integrating these two types of simulators generates a hybrid simulator which inherits the merits of both programs. A hybrid simulator can fulfill the modeling requirements of a large network by providing a fast as well as a detailed simulation. Establishing a connection between two different programs brings up several important issues which have been addressed, classified, and explained in this paper. An alternative integrated modeling of TS and EMT is also discussed using the concept of frequency shifting.

**Index Terms**—Electromagnetic transient analysis, hybrid simulation, interfacing, power system transient stability.

Manuscript received December 12, 2007; revised March 27, 2008. Current version published September 23, 2009. This work was supported by the Natural Science and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC). Paper no. TPWRD-00800-2007.
Task Force members: U. Annakkage, V. Dinavahi (Task Force Chair), S. Filizadeh, A. M. Gole, R. Iravani, V. Jalili-Marandi, J. Jatskevich, A. J. Keri, P. Lehn, J. A. Martinez, B. A. Mork, A. Monti, L. Naredo, T. Noda, A. Ramirez, M. Rioual, M. Steurer, and K. Strunz are with the Task Force on Interfacing Techniques for Simulation Tools, which is with the Working Group on Modeling and Analysis of System Transients Using Digital Programs, IEEE Power Engineering Society Transmission and Distribution Committee.

## I. INTRODUCTION
TRANSIENT STABILITY (TS) and Electromagnetic Transient (EMT) studies are two important analyses in power systems [1], [2]. Transient stability study is important for planning and design, operation and control, and post-disturbances analysis in power systems [3]. Transient stability type programs solve several thousands of differential-algebraic equations for multi-machine power systems assuming single-phase fundamental frequency behavior. To handle such large numbers of equations a time-step in the range of milliseconds is chosen for the simulation.

Applications such as insulation coordination, design of protection schemes, and power electronic converter design require the computation of electromagnetic transients. EMT simulation must be done by considering all phases, over a wide range of frequency, and with a time-step in the range of microseconds or even less. In the past, traditional EMT analysis was based on the Transient Network Analyzer (TNA), an analog scaled-down representation of the study system. In the TNA lines were modeled as series PI-circuits made up of R, L, and C elements [2]. The application of TNA has been restricted due to its high cost, large dimensions, and model simplification issues. The advent of digital computers offered an alternate approach for EMT analysis that overcame some of the restrictions of TNA. EMT-type programs allow low-cost, flexible, and accurate modeling of the EMT phenomenon; however, these simulators are not without some limitations related to modeling accuracy and processing time [2], [4], [5].

Several applications in large-scale power systems such as simulation of transient states of the network including power electronic apparatuses and control devices associated with FACTS and HVDC require a simulator as fast as the TS and as detailed as the EMT simulator. Many attempts were made towards that end, such as using parallel processing or simplified models in the form of equivalents [6]–[8], however, in most cases they were found inadequate for dealing with the large size of realistic power systems. The idea of a combined TS and EMT simulator was first proposed and implemented by Heffernan et al. [9], in 1981. Two separate and distinct simulators were integrated for transient analysis of a system which includes a HVDC link [10]. Later several improvements were made in different steps of building the hybrid simulator.

The application of hybrid simulation is a relatively recent topic. Our intent in this paper is to aggregate various terms, definitions, and methods which have been used in each step of building a hybrid simulator. The paper is organized as follows: in Section II, general terms and definitions which are related to the TS and EMT programs will be reviewed. Although there are several documents concerning these topics, here we briefly present the latest definitions reported in IEEE Standards and Task Force publications. In Section III and Section IV, the properties and restrictions of TS and EMT programs will be described. In Section V the motivation for using a hybrid simulator is presented. Section VI presents an overview of all the requirements and protocols used for hybrid simulation. In Section VII, an integrated EMT-TS frequency adaptive simulation method will be discussed. The conclusion of this paper appears in Section VIII.

## II. GENERAL TERMS AND DEFINITIONS
### A. Transient
IEEE Standard Dictionary defines a transient phenomena as follows [11]:
Pertaining to or designating a phenomenon or a quantity that varies between two consecutive steady states during a time interval that is short compared to the time s