# Interface Displacement and Dynamic Phasor Mapping Equivalence Based Hybrid Simulation for HVAC/DC Power Grids
Yanan Zhu, Student Member, IEEE, Shuqing Zhang, Member, IEEE, Siqi Yu, Yingdong Wei, Jinfeng Zhang, Jianbing Xu, Jingsen Zhou

**Abstract**—In the electromagnetic transient (EMT) and transient stability (TS) hybrid simulation, the entire power system is artificially split into two sub-grids, and sub-grids interact with each other via an interface. Thus interface distortions emerge, including latency and errors. The influence of interface latency is quantitated based on a demo circuit containing delayed interaction. Moreover, the principles of improving hybrid simulation interface accuracy are concluded. Inspired by the principles, a novel interface displacement (ID) and dynamic phasor mapping equivalence (DP-ME) interface scheme is proposed. The scheme makes sub-grids at opposite sides of an interface loosely coupled and avoids interface variable form conversion by applying two techniques. 1) Displacement of the partition interface from the converter buses to the control loops and interior of the EMT sub-grid to utilize the built-in inertias. 2) Construction of the DP-ME model to calculate the injected power from EMT to TS sub-grid. Tests based on designed cases and an actual HVAC/DC power grid give credibility to the proposed ID & DP-ME scheme in comparison with full electromagnetic simulation.

**Index Terms**—electromagnetic and electromechanical, hybrid simulation, interface latency, mapping equivalent model

## I. INTRODUCTION
Because of advantages in long-distance large-capacity transmission, HVDC transmission systems have been widely used in modern power systems. With the concentration of the HVDC terminals in heavy-load districts and large amounts of generators connected through converters, electromechanical processes all through the entire power grid intertwine with fast transients of switching circuits and fast control dynamics [1, 2], which has profound effects on the system stability patterns and evolving processes. An urgent demand emerges for accurate and efficient simulation of such power grids [3, 4].

Electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation and transient stability (TS) simulations have been widely applied to the analysis of power grids and power electronics. However, neither of them are sufficient for efficient simulation of large HVAC/DC power grids. EMT simulation focuses on detailed and fast transients in circuits and grids but is time-consuming and inapplicable to large power grids. TS simulation focuses on system stability and has attracted much attention in recent years [5, 6]. It can efficiently accommodate extra-large power grids and offer an approach for detailed observation of a partial network during one test [5, 6].

In the hybrid simulation, an entire power grid is split into two sub-grids, and two sub-grids are modeled and simulated by the EMT and the TS simulations. They are correlated as a whole by an interface. The two types of simulations are fundamentally different in modeling, bandwidth, equation types, variable forms, and solving methods as well as time-steps. Therefore, a substantial research effort has been undertaken to improve the interface and remove the interface errors.

Generally, the interface errors fall into three categories, and relevant research is summarized below.

1) Loss of high-frequency characteristics when passing boundary conditions from the TS side to the EMT side by fundamental frequency equivalent Thevenin/Norton model. One effective solution is overlaying the frequency-dependent network equivalence onto the fundamental-frequency model [7, 8].

2) Latency induced by artificially splitting and interfacing the originally-coupled system. In the traditional hybrid simulation, subsystems interact by converting and exchanging AC electrical quantities at the interface. Under the parallel interaction protocol, interface latency is inevitably induced by the exchange procedure. To mitigate the impact of latency, previous studies have started from improving interaction protocols at the expense of complicating the data exchange process and increasing the computation and communication burdens [9-12]. Based on the relaxation and latency insertion method, the study [13-15] treated the integrated circuit as two loosely coupled subsystems and solved them via alternating iteration. Nevertheless, it is hard to find a loosely coupled interface in actual power grids. The study [7, 16] have employed a few hundred microseconds as a solving step for TS simulation and interface, to decouple the EMT and TS sub-grids through transmission lines and eliminate the influence of interface latency. However, the computational burden increases due to the necessary iterations. Although this solution cannot decouple the subsystems when the time-step is at the millisecond level, it offers a new approach to reducing the influence of interface latency.