# Low-Dimensional Equivalent Models and Multithreading-Based Parallel EMT Simulation Method for Multi-Converter Systems
**Mingwang Xu**, Graduate Student Member, IEEE, **Wei Gu**, Senior Member, IEEE, **Yang Cao**, Graduate Student Member, IEEE, **Shuaixian Chen**, **Fei Zhang**, Member, IEEE, and **Wei Liu**, Senior Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—As the proportion of renewable energy generation in the grid increases, the number of voltage source converters (VSCs) has grown significantly. It is therefore of great importance to study the multi-VSC systems using electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation. This paper presents a novel approach to modeling multi-VSC circuits, comprising EMT low-dimensional equivalent models and a multithreading-based parallel simulation method. The decoupling between the VSC from the AC grid is initially achieved through the adoption of semi-implicit hybrid integration. This is followed by the synthesis of the equivalent circuit for each phase, which results in the derivation of low-dimensional equivalent models of multi-VSC circuits. In addition, a parallel simulation algorithm for the VSC is proposed, which enables parallel solution and the update of internal/external node voltages and historical current sources. Subsequently, the design and implementation of the parallel algorithm is achieved by means of an OpenMP-based simulation framework. Furthermore, a physical experimental platform is established. The simulation results demonstrate that the proposed model is capable of achieving more than 80 times acceleration in serial mode due to the decoupling and low-dimension when applied in a grid-connected 100-megawatt photovoltaic power station (PVPS), and can obtain 2-3 times secondary acceleration in parallel mode with almost uncompromising accuracy.

**Index Terms**—EMT modeling and parallel simulation, power electronic converters, decoupling, low-dimensional equivalent circuits of multi-VSC, OpenMP technology, simulation efficiency.

Manuscript received 2 January 2024; revised 8 May 2024; accepted 29 June 2024. Date of publication 4 July 2024; date of current version 21 February 2025. This work was supported by the Science and Technology Project of State Grid Corporation, Key Technologies and Application of Digital Twin for Distribution Network with High DG Penetration under Grant 5400-202255154A-1-1-ZN. Article no. TEC-00004-2024. (Corresponding author: Wei Gu.)

Mingwang Xu, Wei Gu, Yang Cao, Shuaixian Chen, and Fei Zhang are with the School of Electrical Engineering, Southeast University, Nanjing 210096, China (e-mail: 230228745@seu.edu.cn; wgu@seu.edu.cn; 230228738@seu.edu.cn; 220232912@seu.edu.cn; zhangfei@seu.edu.cn).

Wei Liu is with the School of Automation, Nanjing University of Science and Technology, Nanjing 210094, China (e-mail: wliu@njust.edu.cn).

Color versions of one or more figures in this article are available at https://doi.org/10.1109/TEC.2024.3422080.

Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TEC.2024.3422080

## I. INTRODUCTION
### A. Motivation
With the development of modern power grid and large-scale renewable energy connected to grid, applications of voltage source converters (VSCs) have increased significantly, such as large-scale renewable energy power station containing multi-VSC [1], [2], [3]. For the design and operation of multi-VSC circuits, the simulation demand for it is becoming increasingly prominent. Electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation plays an indispensable role to study these issues [4].

However, there are some difficulties in modeling and EMT simulation of multi-VSC circuits, which are mainly reflected in the following aspects [5]. Firstly, multi-VSC containing large number switching devices often operate in parallel through the AC-bus, which brings a high dimensionality and time-varying nodal admittance matrix. In turn, this leads to their EMT simulation is not efficient, and the trade-off between simulation accuracy and efficiency is worthy of further study in this case. Thus, an efficient equivalent model needs to be studied; secondly, the DC side of multi-VSC can be not interconnected, such as individual PV power units (PVPUs) in a large-scale PVPS. Besides, they can also be connected in parallel on the DC-side, such as the back-to-back flexible high voltage direct current (HVDC) transmission systems, so there is an urgent need to study generalized equivalent models that can be adapted to different scenarios; finally, a high-precision and efficiency equivalent model that can account for both internal and external characteristics of the multi-VSC circuits remains to be studied.

### B. Literature Review
For the modeling method of converter, the current research mainly includes the modeling of switching device and the equivalent modeling of converter. Among them, the switching devices in PSCAD/EMTDC and some other platforms adopt the $R_{on}/R_{off}$ model, but the time-varying admittance matrix will restrict its simulation efficiency and is not suitable for research occasions with a large number of power electronic switches [6]. The $L/C$-associated constant admittance model is widely used in real-time simulation platforms such as RT-LAB and RTDS and some real-time simulators based on FPGA [7]. In order to solve the problem of power loss in the $L/C$ model, a general modeling method based on response matching is proposed in [8], which perform well in real-time simulation. Besides, compensation current source is proposed to use in [9]. In [10], RTDS developed and launched the universal converter model (UCM). The model uses a state space modelling method to solve the two-terminal circuits of the converter in strict tandem, eliminating the delay problem of the traditional controlled