## Magnetically-Saturable Voltage-Behind-Reactance Synchronous Machine Model for EMTP-Type Solution
**Liwei Wang**, Member, IEEE, and **Juri Jatskevich**, Senior Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—A so-called voltage-behind-reactance (VBR) machine model has recently been proposed for the electro-magnetic transient programs (EMTP) as an advantageous alternative to the conventional $dq$ and phase-domain models. This paper extends the previous research and proposes a magnetically saturable VBR synchronous machine model for EMTP-type solutions. The proposed saturable VBR model utilizes the saliency factor approach to represent main-flux saturation for the salient-pole synchronous machines with the $dq$ axes static and dynamic cross saturation included. An efficient piecewise-linear method is used for representing the nonlinear saturation characteristic within the discretized EMTP solution. Case studies verify that the new model maintains the improved numerical accuracy in steady state and transients even with large time step.

**Index Terms**—Electro-magnetic transient programs (EMTP), magnetic saturation, phase-domain model, synchronous machine modeling, voltage-behind-reactance model.

*Manuscript received September 06, 2010; revised September 23, 2010; accepted January 04, 2011. Date of publication February 24, 2011; date of current version October 21, 2011. This work was supported in part by the Natural Science and Engineering Research Council (NSERC) of Canada under the Discovery Grant, and in part by the Power Engineering Grant-In-Aid from BC Hydro and Powertech Labs, Inc. Paper no. TPWRS-00713-2010.*

L. Wang is with ABB Sweden Corporate Research, SE-721 78 Västerås, Sweden (e-mail: liwei.wang@se.abb.com).
J. Jatskevich is with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z4, Canada (e-mail: jurij@ece.ubc.ca).

Color versions of one or more of the figures in this paper are available online at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TPWRS.2011.2107755

## I. INTRODUCTION

NUMEROUS machine models [1]–[17] were proposed depending on required modeling fidelity and applications. This paper focuses on the synchronous machine models that are suitable for the power systems electro-magnetic transient programs (EMTP) [18]. EMTP-like programs are extensively used in industry and academia as powerful and standard transient simulation tools. Therein, the so-called general-purpose models of electrical machines are based on the classical $dq$ reference frame theory [19] and are readily available as built-in library components.

For the salient-pole synchronous machines, the existence of anisotropic rotor structure causes difficulties for the determination of the $d$-axis saturation characteristic and generally complicates the modeling. Consequently, depending on the required accuracy and acceptable model complexity, in typical models used in EMTP, magnetic saturation may be included along $d$-axis only; or along both $dq$ axes separately ignoring cross saturation; or more accurately along the main flux path taking $dq$ axes cross saturation into account. In order to incorporate magnetic saturation into the salient-pole synchronous machine model, single-saturation factor [1], [7], [9]–[11] or two-saturation factor approaches [4], [5], [8] can be utilized depending on the availability of the $d$-axis and/or intermediate directions of the saturation characteristic [14], [17].

Magnetic saturation in $dq$ machine models has been implemented for various EMTP software packages [20]–[23]. These implementations include the saturable Type-59 machine model [24], where the main flux saturation is accounted for round-rotor and salient-pole synchronous machines with cross saturation included. The Universal Machine (UM) models [25] in ATP also includes magnetic saturation, wherein for the salient-pole synchronous machines, the saturation along $dq$ axes is considered separately, and for the round-rotor synchronous machines, the saturation of the main flux is considered. In PSCAD/EMTDC, a typical built-in synchronous machine model permits only $d$-axis saturation [22]. In EMTP-RV [23], the main flux saturation is assumed for the round-rotor synchronous machines, while for the salient-pole machines, the saturation is represented along $d$ and $q$ axes separately.

As an alternative to conventional $dq$ model, the so-called phase-domain (PD) models were also proposed for simulations of electromagnetic transients [12], [26]–[28]. However, the complexity of representing magnetic saturation using PD formulation is much higher than that of the classical $dq$ models. The voltage-behind-reactance (VBR) machine models have been proposed recently for state-variable-based simulation languages [29], [30] and EMTP-type programs [31]–[33] as a computationally efficient alternative to the PD models. As has been documented in a number of recent publications, the VBR model formulation achieves many advantageous properties such as direct model interface with the external network, significantly improved numerical efficiency and accuracy. The interested reader will find detailed analysis and comparisons of $dq$, PD, and VBR models in [29]–[33] which is not repeated here due to limited space.

A VBR synchronous machine model that includes the $d$-axis saturation was implemented in [34] using state-space modeling approach. A high-order VBR synchronous machine model for representing arbitrary rotor network and saturation effects was proposed in [35]. The VBR induction machine model that includes main flux saturation was recently implemented for the