# Massively Parallel Modeling of Battery Energy Storage Systems for AC/DC Grid High-Performance Transient Simulation
**Ning Lin**, Member, IEEE, **Shiqi Cao**, Graduate Student Member, IEEE, and **Venkata Dinavahi**, Fellow, IEEE

**Abstract**—Extensive integration of power electronics apparatuses complicates the modern power grid and consequently necessitates time-domain transients study for its planning and operation. In this work, a heterogeneous computing architecture utilizing the CPU and graphics processing unit (GPU) is proposed for the efficient study of interactions between a power grid network and massive utility-scale battery energy storage systems (BESSs). The device-level electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation aiming at enhanced fidelity of the BESS is conducted simultaneously with electro-mechanical transient stability (TS) simulation which suffices system-level dynamic security assessment. Since the reservation of a large amount of energy storage units is computationally intensive for the CPU, the concurrent multi-streaming, multi-threading capability of GPU is exploited to achieve asynchronous sequential-parallel processing, so that the proposed EMT-TS co-simulation can flexibly harness all available computing resources. The multi-rate scheme is adopted for further computational burden alleviation in addition to achieving timely information exchange. It shows that the heterogeneous computation of an IEEE 118-bus system integrated with a substantial number of distributed batteries becomes feasible following the achievement of a remarkable speedup of over 200, and the device- as well as system-level accuracy are validated by MATLAB/Simulink and DSAToolsTM /TSAT simulation, respectively.

**Index Terms**—AC/DC grid, battery energy storage, electromagnetic transients, graphics processing unit, high-performance computing, parallel processing, power system transient stability.

*Manuscript received 2 January 2022; revised 29 April 2022 and 2 July 2022; accepted 1 August 2022. Date of publication 3 August 2022; date of current version 24 April 2023. This work was supported by the Natural Science and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC). Paper no. TPWRS-00008-2022. (Corresponding author: Ning Lin.)*
*Ning Lin is with Powertech Labs Inc., Surrey, BC V3W 7R7, Canada (e-mail: ning3@ualberta.ca).*
*Shiqi Cao and Venkata Dinavahi are with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB T6G 2R3, Canada (e-mail: sc5@ualberta.ca; dinavahi@ualberta.ca).*
*Color versions of one or more figures in this article are available at https://doi.org/10.1109/TPWRS.2022.3196286.*
*Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TPWRS.2022.3196286*

## I. INTRODUCTION
MASSIVE integration of power-converter-based apparatuses such as renewable energies and microgrids into a regional transmission and distribution grid diversifies its power supply, whilst posing a challenge to the system dynamic security [1], [2]. The semi-autonomy of these devices leads to more complex electric network operation scenarios as it implies the very likelihood of their sudden connection or disconnection that consequently causes a powerflow redistribution or momentary disequilibrium which could gradually intensify and eventually cause instability. Hence, extensive utility-scale battery energy storage systems (BESSs) are envisioned for voltage and frequency support [3], and some work with aggregated units have been carried out [4], [5]. To gain an accurate insight into their efficacy for grid operation and planning purpose, it requires a system-wide study with each individual unit modeled in detail [6], which is infeasible to commercial simulation software due to a heavy computational burden.

Dynamic security assessment with electro-mechanical modeling in the phasor domain is prevalent regarding investigating the voltage, angle, and frequency stability of AC and DC grids [7], [8]. It is carried out at the system level where various types of converter-based energy sources and loads are lumped or simplified [9], [10]. Although it suffices to show the entire grid operation status, the positive-sequence transient stability (TS) simulation falls short of providing detailed device-level information, and the impact of an individual energy system with an actual configuration and an exact control scheme on the bulk AC network could also be unavailable. Additionally, a regular time-step of a few milliseconds excludes typical power converter transients.

The electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation based on time-domain model discretization and linearization, in contrast, can capture fast transients even in sub-microseconds [11]. The detailed models incorporated enable it to be a highly accurate approach to evaluate electric power components and systems [12]–[14], especially a power converter controller. In the meantime, a mandatory time-step typically ranging from a few to dozens of microseconds implies that it is more time-consuming than TS assessment [15], [16]. Nevertheless, owing to a dominant sequential processing manner, the efficiency of commercial EMT simulation software plunges alongside an increasing number of components as well as an expanding scale of the network. To cater to the tremendous computing resource demand, multi-core CPUs and their clusters are adopted as a solution [17]–[19].

The graphics processing unit (GPU) with an improving computational capability supported by thousands of cores is an emerging platform for high-performance computing (HPC) of power systems and power electronics [20], [21], and remarkable