# Massively Parallel Implementation of AC Machine Models for FPGA-Based Real-Time Simulation of Electromagnetic Transients
**Mahmoud Matar, Student Member, IEEE, and Reza Iravani, Fellow, IEEE**

**Abstract**—This paper presents a generalized, parallel implementation methodology for real-time simulation of ac machine transients in an FPGA-based real-time simulator. The proposed method adopts nanosecond range simulation time-step and exploits the large response time of a rotating machine to: 1) eliminate the need for predictive-corrective action for the machine electrical and mechanical variables, 2) decouple the solution of the dq0 stator currents, and 3) enable the use of one-time-step delayed interface between the machine and the rest of the system which decouples the machine solution from that of the rest of the system. The proposed method simplifies the solution of the machine model without compromising accuracy or numerical stability of the simulation. This paper also presents a massively parallel, customized hardware architecture tailored to the solution of the mathematical model of ac machines. The proposed method and the developed hardware architecture are tested and verified based on the implementation of a permanent-magnet synchronous machine model and an induction machine-based ac-drive system in a field-programmable gate-array-based simulator. Real-time simulation is achieved with a computation time of 44 ns within the simulation timestep.

**Index Terms**—AC machines, electromagnetic transients, field-programmable gate array (FPGA), modeling, real-time simulation.

## I. INTRODUCTION
REAL-TIME simulators do exist and have been widely used for the analysis of electromagnetic transients (EMTs) and testing physical control/protection platforms [1]–[4]. Existing real-time simulators are based on parallel processing, where multiprocessors, either general-purpose processors (GPPs) or digital signal processors (DSPs), or computer clusters are utilized [5]–[11]. The existing real-time simulators have limitations on the minimum time-step size, the frequency bandwidth of the simulation results [12], and the accuracy of the adopted models. Therefore, their application are limited, particularly when power electronic-based apparatus with high switching frequencies are of concern. These limitations are the main motivation behind the development of a new field-programmable gate-array (FPGA)-based real-time simulator [13] which addresses such technical limits/challenges of real-time simulators based on a new methodology for implementation of the system equations in a FPGA environment. The salient feature of the implementation methodology of [13] is that it maintains the calculation time, within each simulation time-step, nearly fixed irrespective of the size of the system.

This paper extends the parallel implementation methodology of [13] to simulate ac machines with a nanosecond range simulation time-step in an FPGA environment. The proposed implementation methodology for ac machine models enables the use of a small simulation time-step, in the range of tens to few hundred nanoseconds. Based on exploiting the nanosecond range simulation time-step and the large response time of ac machines, the proposed method: 1) eliminates the need for predictive-corrective action for machine electrical and mechanical variables, 2) allows parallel simulation of both the electrical and mechanical subsystems of the machine, and 3) allows the use of the terminal voltages calculated at a given time-step to solve the machine’s variables in the subsequent time-step, without compromising accuracy or numerical stability of the simulation. Based on the proposed parallel implementation methodology, a massively parallel (i.e., having a large number of independent arithmetic units that operate simultaneously) customized hardware architecture is designed and implemented on a FPGA.

The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section II describes the mathematical model and procedures to simulate a rotating ac machine. Section III analyzes the solution algorithm for the simulating ac machine to identify the potential parallelism inherent to it as a means for speeding up the required computations. The hardware architecture of the proposed simulator is then designed to exploit all possible levels of parallelism, inherent to the solution algorithm of ac machines, without imposing sever communication overhead time that otherwise can limit the performance. Section IV describes implementation of the model in the FPGA environment. Section V evaluates the performance of the developed model in the FPGA-based simulator. Conclusions are stated in Section VI.

Manuscript received December 18, 2009; revised May 21, 2010, September 16, 2010, and September 30, 2010; accepted October 01, 2010. Date of publication November 18, 2010; date of current version March 25, 2011. This work was supported in part by the University of Toronto and in part by the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC). Paper no. TPWRD-00943-2009.

The authors are with the Energy Systems Group, Electrical and Computer Engineering Department, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON M5S 3G4, Canada (e-mail: mahmatar@ieee.org; iravani@ecf.utoronto.ca).

Color versions of one or more of the figures in this paper are available online at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.

Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TPWRD.2010.2086499

## II. MACHINE MODEL
The ac electric machines that are often encountered in a power system include: 1) conventional field-controlled synchronous machines (SMs); 2) permanent magnet synchronous machines (PMSMs); 3) squirrel-cage induction (asynchronous) machines (IMs); and 4) doubly-fed asynchronous machines (DFAMs) [14].

For the analysis of electromagnetic transients of a power system, three different models for an ac electric machine are nanoseconds, these numerical instability and inaccuracy issues are not of a