## Methods of Interfacing Rotating Machine Models in Transient Simulation Programs
**IEEE Task Force on Interfacing Techniques for Simulation Tools**
L. Wang, J. Jatskevich, V. Dinavahi, H. W. Dommel, J. A. Martinez, K. Strunz, M. Rioual, G. W. Chang, and R. Iravani

**Abstract**—The electromagnetic transient programs (EMTP-like tools) are based on the nodal (or modified nodal) equations that enable an efficient numerical solution and, subsequently, fast time-domain simulations. The state-variable-based simulation programs, such as Simulink, are also used for studying the dynamics of electrical systems. Both the offline and real-time versions of these two types of simulation tools are widely used by the researchers and engineers in industry and academia to study the transient phenomena and dynamics in power systems with rotating electrical machines. This paper provides a summary of the interfacing techniques that are utilized to integrate the general-purpose models of electrical machines with the rest of the power system network for these studies. The interfacing methods are broadly classified as indirect and direct approaches. The paper also describes the numerical properties as well as limitations imposed by the interfacing of the commonly used machine models that should be considered when selecting the simulation parameters and assessing the final results.

**Index Terms**—Electrical machines, electromagnetic transients, Electromagnetic Transients Program (EMTP), interfacing techniques, simulation, state-variable approach.

## I. INTRODUCTION
Rotating electrical machines have been an integral part of power systems for as long as the latter have existed. The electrical machines are used as generators and motors in numerous applications in power systems in a wide range of voltage and power levels. This paper mainly considers the machine models that are based on the coupled electric circuit approach, which leads to a relatively small number of equations and have been very effectively utilized for analyzing power systems transients [1]–[4]. The validity of this type of models for both balanced and unbalanced power system operations has been confirmed [5], [6]. Over time, numerous models have been developed concurrently with the development of digital computer programs. The modeling methods were influenced by many factors such as type and size of the machine, objectives of the power system study, and the method of exchanging data between the machine and the network. While a large number of machine models may offer beneficial options to the user, it also creates challenges in terms of proper model selection. For example, the same machine modeled in two separate software programs would yield different results leading to much confusion during the implementation and validation stages. Some researchers have also questioned the applicability of the established model to unbalanced conditions [7]–[9]. The authors of [10], [11] made similar conclusions by comparing the simulation results of the classical model and the coupled-circuit phase-domain (PD) model under unbalanced operation. As the software programs matured the root causes of the modeling differences were eventually recognized and corrected [5], [12].

The objective of this task force paper is to present to the reader the various interfacing techniques used to integrate the machine models with the power system network in different simulation programs. The Electromagnetic Transients Program (EMTP) [4], [13] approach and its many derivative programs (such as ATP [14], MicroTran [15], PSCAD/EMTDC [16], EMTP-RV [17], VTB [18], etc.) are based on nodal (or modified nodal) equations and are widely used. The state variable (SV) approach is also used for the analysis of dynamic systems including electric power systems. The examples of SV-based software packages include acslX [19], Easy5 [20], Eurostag [21], MATLAB/Simulink [22], etc. Within the EMTP and SV solution methodologies, this paper broadly classifies the methods of interfacing electrical machine models with power system network into indirect and direct approaches. This paper also provides numerous examples and studies that should help many engineers and researchers in correct use of various machine models and software packages.

Another important aspect of machine modeling is the representation of magnetic saturation, which improves the accuracy and the range of applications of such models. Different approaches have been considered for various machine model structures (e.g., , PD) and/or simulation languages (EMTP or SV based). However, the saturation modeling methods for transient simulation programs are not discussed here as this issue requires more thorough literature survey which is beyond the scope of this paper.

Manuscript received June 18, 2009; revised December 02, 2009. First published February 17, 2010; current version published March 24, 2010. Task Force on Interfacing Techniques for Simulation Tools is with the Working Group on Modeling and Analysis of System Transients Using Digital Programs, IEEE Power and Energy Society, T&D Committee. Paper no. TPWRD-00457-2009.
Task Force members: U. Annakkage, G. W. Chang, V. Dinavahi (Chair), S. Filizadeh, A. M. Gole, R. Iravani, J. Jatskevich, A. J. Keri, P. Lehn, J. Mahseredjian, J. A. Martinez, B. A. Mork, A. Monti, L. Naredo, T. Noda, A. Ramirez, M. Rioual, M. Steurer, K. Strunz.
L. Wang and J. Jatskevich are with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z4, Canada (e-mail: liweiw@ece.ubc.ca; jurij@ece.ubc.ca).
Color versions of one or more of the figures in this paper are available online at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TPWRD.2009.2039809