# Mitigation of Subsynchronous Interactions in Hybrid AC/DC Grid With Renewable Energy Using Faster-Than-Real-Time Dynamic Simulation

Shiqi Cao, Student Member, IEEE, Ning Lin, Member, IEEE, and Venkata Dinavahi, Fellow, IEEE

**Abstract—** Transmission line capacity enhancement by series compensation is commonly used in power systems, which consequently faces potential subsynchronous interaction (SSI). In this work, faster-than-real-time (FTRT) simulation based on the field-programmable gate arrays is proposed to mitigate the disastrous SSI in a hybrid AC/DC grid integrated with wind farms. Dynamic simulation is applied to the AC system to gain a high speedup over real-time, and a detailed multi-mass model is specifically introduced to the synchronous generator to show the electrical-mechanical interaction. Meanwhile, the DC grid undergoes electromagnetic transient simulation to reflect the impact of power converters’ control on the overall grid, and consequently, the EMT-dynamic co-simulation running concurrently due to FPGA’s hardware parallelism is formed. As the two simulations are inherently distinct, a power-voltage interface is adopted to separate them which enables their coexistence in one program. It shows that following the detection of a contingency, the FTRT hardware platform can generate an optimum solution with precisely quantified power flow changes in advance to keep the hybrid AC/DC grid stable. The FTRT efficacy is proven by a number of cases where the accuracy is validated by offline simulation tool Matlab/Simulink.

**Index Terms—** AC/DC grid, dynamic simulation, faster than real time, field-programmable gate array (FPGA), parallel processing, power system stability, real-time systems, synchronous generator, subsynchronous interaction.

Manuscript received December 10, 2019; revised February 26, 2020; accepted March 29, 2020. Date of publication April 2, 2020; date of current version January 6, 2021. This work was supported by the Natural Science and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC). Paper no. TPWRS-01852-2019. (Corresponding author: Ning Lin.)

The authors are with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta T6G 2V4, Canada (e-mail: sc5@ualberta.ca; ning3@ualberta.ca; dinavahi@ualberta.ca).

Color versions of one or more of the figures in this article are available online at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.

## I. INTRODUCTION

The high-voltage direct current (HVDC) has seen a significant inroads into modern power systems, for purposes such as economic long-distance electricity transmission, the connection of different grids with distinct frequencies, and renewable energy integration where a few DC stations are routinely linked by transmission lines to enable flexible power flow [1]. The formation of a complex network of the hybrid AC/DC grid as a result of the integration of intermittent renewable energies such as the wind farm makes it more challenging to maintain a stable power system operating safely [2], considering that in such an interactive network any unexpected contingency in a small region will soon spread to other areas via various paths while during the process its severity may also increase.

Widely adopted for boosting the transmission capacity of a line, capacitive series compensation induces the potential risk of subsynchronous interaction (SSI) which is one of the most severe security issues that the power system may encounter [3], which makes its expansion with multi-terminal HVDC transmission system and wind farms leading into a hybrid grid more vulnerable. The SSI, which is largely defined as the interaction between the series compensator and turbine generator, have 3 major categories [4], i.e., the induction generator effect (IGE), the torsional interaction (TI), and the torsional amplification (TA) which generally refers to the immediate oscillations in the shaft torque following large disturbances, such as faults or switching operations. This phenomenon could linger for a long period of time in a series-compensated system, and it may cause disconnection of the generators and damages to the shaft [4], [5]. Therefore, TA mitigation becomes imperative once it appears to avoid a deeper negative impact on the AC/DC grid.

In transient stability analysis, the time-steps of traditional simulation tools such as PSS/e, and DSATools/TSAT range from 1 ms to 10 ms [6], [7]. However, the CPU-based simulation is implemented sequentially and therefore turns out to be time-consuming [8]. On the other hand, the available FPGAs’ large hardware resource capacity allows parallel processing of various components [9], [10]. As a result, it shortens the process for finding the whole network solution by optimizing the hardware latency, which is why it is the ideal platform for the co-simulation to attain faster-than-real-time. As a precautionary measure, the FTRT simulation is able to mitigate the SSI once it happens following the occurrence of a serious contingency like three-phase fault or a sudden load change [11]–[14], since it is actively involved in reproducing the phenomenon and then learning in advance the system’s responses under various scenarios to find a proper strategy, or to predict how much active power should be injected into or extracted from the AC grid by regulating the HVDC grid, as well as how long should the process last before real actions take place in the actual system.

In this work, a detailed multi-mass turbine-shaft-generator model compulsory to produce the torsional amplification is developed for transient stability analysis in the dynamic simulation, which