# Modal Domain-Based Modeling of Parallel Transmission Lines With Emphasis on Accurate Representation of Mutual Coupling Effects
**Bjørn Gustavsen**, Senior Member, IEEE

The author is with SINTEF Energy Research, Trondheim N-7465, Norway (e-mail: bjorn.gustavsen@sintef.no).

**Abstract**—Transient and harmonic coupling effects between parallel overhead lines are normally modeled via frequency-dependent traveling-wave-type transmission-line models. Several electromagnetic transient programs rely on a line model based on a constant transformation matrix and modes (FD-line). These line models can, however, give substantial errors in the studies of coupled disturbance from one line to a neighbor line. In this paper, we show that the accuracy of the FD-line in these applications can be greatly improved by representing the line system by independent FD-lines in combination with rational models that take the mutual coupling between the lines into account. A mode-revealing transformation is used for further enhancing the accuracy of the coupling effect. The approach is demonstrated for the simulation of transient coupling between two parallel overhead lines caused by line energization and for assessing the disturbance of a railway signaling system from a neighboring overhead line caused by a transformer inrush current and fault transients.

**Index Terms**—Disturbance, electromagnetic compatibility (EMC), mutual coupling, railway, transients, transmission-line model.

## I. INTRODUCTION
Electromagnetic transient simulation programs [1] include transmission-line models that can be embedded in general electrical circuits for detailed studies of transient voltages and currents in power system networks. The most commonly applied line model is the traveling-wave-type model due to its efficiency in handling the delay effects of the line. This category of line models has developed over the years, from modal domain models (FD-line) [2], [3] based on a constant transformation matrix and frequency-dependent modes to models based on frequency-dependent transformation matrix and frequency-dependent modes [4], [5] (FDQ-line). More recently, the more accurate and versatile phase domain models have been introduced [6]–[13] where the computations are performed in the actual phase domain coordinates. In particular, the phase domain model, known as the universal line model (ULM) [9] with improvements [10]–[13], is known to produce highly accurate results for overhead line and cable systems. Nevertheless, several simulation platforms still rely on the FD-line model alone and so it is of interest to further increase its accuracy.

The FD-line [3] produces quite accurate results in the case of single circuit overhead lines. However, the accuracy deteriorates in application which involves several circuits (i.e. parallel overhead lines). In this paper, we focus on the ability to accurately simulate the disturbance effect between two or more lines in parallel when only the FD-line model is available. Here, quite large errors may result for the mutual coupling due to the assumption of a constant transformation matrix. As a remedy, we propose a simulation approach where the two lines are treated as independent (uncoupled) lines that are each modeled by an FD-line. The mutual coupling is represented by a wideband state-space model. In this modeling, special care is taken for ensuring high accuracy by: 1) separating the inductive and capacitive coupling at low frequencies and by 2) introducing mode-revealing transformations to prevent the interphase modes to be masked by the common-mode component. The new modeling approach is demonstrated for the simulation of disturbances between: 1) a 230-kV overhead line and a 115-kV overhead line, and 2) a 230-kV overhead line and a railway signaling system. The accuracy of the new approach is validated by alternative computations by the ULM line model and by the inverse Numerical Laplace Transform (NLT).

## II. MODELING
### A. Motivation
The starting point for any transmission-line model is the per-unit-length parameters of the line system (i.e., the matrices for series impedance $\mathbf{Z}$ and shunt admittance $\mathbf{Y}$) which define the differential change in voltage $\mathbf{V}$ and current $\mathbf{I}$ over a short line section
$$ \frac{d\mathbf{V}}{dx} = -\mathbf{Z}\mathbf{I} \qquad (1a) $$
$$ \frac{d\mathbf{I}}{dx} = -\mathbf{Y}\mathbf{V} \qquad (1b) $$
where $\mathbf{V}$ and $\mathbf{I}$ are column vectors of length $n$ where $n$ is the number of conductors. $\mathbf{Z}$, $\mathbf{Y}$, and $\mathbf{I}$ are matrices of dimension $n \times n$. $\mathbf{I}$ is the identity matrix while $\mathbf{\Gamma}$ and $\mathbf{Y}_c$ are the matrices of propagation and characteristic admittance, respectively. An ap-