## Modal decoupling of overhead transmission lines using real and constant matrices: Influence of the line length
Pablo Torrez Caballero $^a$, Eduardo C. Marques Costa $^{b,*}$, Sérgio Kurokawa $^a$
$^a$ Unesp – Univ. Estadual Paulista, Faculdade de Engenharia de Ilha Solteira – FEIS, Departamento de Engenharia Elétrica, Ilha Solteira, SP, Brazil
$^b$ Universidade de São Paulo – USP, Escola Politécnica, Departamento de Engenharia de Energia e Automação Elétricas – PEA, São Paulo, SP, Brazil

*Corresponding author. E-mail addresses: pablotorrezcaballero@gmail.com (P. Torrez Caballero), educosta@usp.br (E.C. Marques Costa), kurokawa@dee.feis.unesp.br (S. Kurokawa).*

### Abstract
The Clarke’s matrix is a well-known real and constant transformation matrix used for modal transformation in three-phase transmission lines modeling. Although modal analysis has been widely discussed in the technical literature on power system modeling, a new content is approached in this research proving that the approximation using an exact and constant modal transformation matrix depends on both the frequency-dependent parameters and transmission line’s length. As an important conclusion, the approach using the Clarke’s matrix leads to more accurate results considering long transmission lines. There are two methods for modal decoupling in power systems modeling. The first uses only a single constant and real transformation matrix during the entire modeling/simulation routine. The second uses the frequency-dependent transformation matrix for parameters decoupling into the propagation modes and the Clarke’s matrix for mode-to-phase transformation of voltage and current values during simulations. The accuracy of these two modeling/simulation processes are evaluated, in the time and frequency domains, based on results obtained from a reference routine that employs the exact frequency-dependent matrix in modal transformations and numerical transforms for simulation in the time domain. The proposed analysis proves that the accuracy of both methods varies with the line length during electromagnetic transient simulations that leads to peak errors up to approximately 10%. The influence of the line length in modal analysis techniques was not approached in previous references on power system modeling, which represents the original contribution of this paper.

**Keywords:** Transmission line modeling, Electromagnetic transients, Modal analysis, Transmission line theory

## 1. Introduction
Modal analysis techniques are widely applied in power systems modeling [1–4]. In this context, a coupled multiphase system can be decoupled into propagation modes that can be modeled separately as individual single-phase systems. Modal transformations are successively applied during the modeling and simulation routines to convert line parameters, voltages and currents from the phase domain to modal domain and vice versa [5]. These transformations are carried out by using modal transformation matrices, which are usually frequency-dependent due to frequency effect on the line parameters. However, depending on the line geometry and system characteristics, several approximations can be achieved in order to produce constant modal transformation matrices, e.g.: symmetrical components, Karrenbauer, Clarke and others. The modal decoupling theory represents an essential tool in power systems modeling for analysis of insulation coordination, electromagnetic compatibility, protection and general design of transmission lines.

Transmission line models for simulation of electromagnetic transients are usually presented in the technical literature into two categories: distributed- or lumped-parameters models. The first is developed directly from the frequency-dependent distributed parameters of the line and using modal decoupling, where each propagation mode is represented as an independent two-port circuit and simulation results are obtained in the time domain from numerical transforms [6]. The second category is also based on modal decoupling, where each propagation mode is represented as a single-phase line by electric circuit approach and the frequency effect on the line parameters is included directly in the time domain by means of fitting techniques [3,4,7].

The two modeling techniques present advantages and restrictions that were well established in the literature on transmission line modeling [1,5]. However, some important issues should be emphasized for an appropriate understanding of the proposed analysis. Although the distributed-parameters models show a great accuracy for a wide range of frequencies, i.e., for any of electromagnetic transient in power systems, since a switching up to a very fast steep-front impulse (atmospheric impulse), these frequency-domain models have several limitations for inclusion of non-

Due to relationship (5), $[S_V]$ and $[S_I]$ share the same polynomial characteristic and consequently have the same eigenvalues $[\lambda]$. Nonetheless, a matrix and its transpose do not have the same eigenvectors. Thus, the matrix with eigenvalues