# Modeling for large-scale offshore wind farm using multi-thread parallel computing
Ming Zou, Chengyong Zhao, Jianzhong Xu*
State Key Laboratory of Alternate Electrical Power System with Renewable Energy Sources, North China Electric Power University (NCEPU), 102206 Beijing, China

## Abstract
Large-scale Offshore Wind Farms (OWFs) face difficulty when carrying out microsecond-level Electro-Magnetic Transient (EMT) simulations due to the large number of Wind Turbines (WTs) and electrical nodes. This paper provides an OWF modeling method considering the electrical collection network based on the integrated equivalent modeling method of single WT, which can eliminate the internal nodes and reduce the order of admittance matrix. Meanwhile, the multi-thread parallel computing is integrated into the whole solution procedure, which achieves further simulation speedup. Moreover, simulations are performed in PSCAD/EMTDC to compare the model accuracy and time efficiency of the proposed method with the detailed model. The simulation results show that the proposed method can accurately simulate the dynamic characteristics of large-scale OWFs with large speedup factors.

**Keywords:** Offshore Wind Farm (OWF), Electro-Magnetic Transient (EMT), Electrical collection network, Multi-thread parallel computing

* Corresponding author. E-mail address: xujianzhong@ncepu.edu.cn (J. Xu).
☆ This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (52277094) and Science and Technology Project of China Huaneng Group Co., Ltd. (HNKJ20-H88-02).

## 1. Introduction
With the worsening of climate warming and environmental pollution, the transition from conventional fossil energy power to renewable energy power becomes urgent [1,2]. Offshore wind power has become a promising approach for China to achieve the goal of “carbon peak and carbon neutrality” and plays a very important role in the construction of new-type power system with renewable energy as the main body due to its advantages of abundant resource reserves, no occupation of land resources and high utilization rate of wind energy [3–5].

To accurately reflect the internal and external dynamic characteristics of large-scale Offshore Wind Farms (OWFs), the Electro-Magnetic Transient (EMT) simulation has become an important tool for wind farm planning, control protection design, and reproducing and handling abnormal working conditions [6–8]. Since there are large number of WTs in the OWF, the microsecond-level time-step size is required. However, the detailed EMT simulation model, which employs discrete components, requires super high-order admittance matrix reconstruction and inversion operations, resulting in extremely low simulation efficiency [9–11].

To fill the research gap, many scholars have carried out researches on accelerating the EMT simulations. References [12–16] focus on improving the serial solution efficiency of the model based on mathematical and equivalence principles. While references [17–21] pay attention to the parallelism of model solution procedure and introduce multi-thread parallel computing to EMT simulation, thus to maximize the computing potential of the CPU processors.

In terms of serial computation acceleration, reference [12] proposed a Thévenin’s equivalent EMT simulation model for Modular Multilevel Converter (MMC) based on Nested Fast and Simultaneous Solution (NFSS) algorithm. This method can improve the simulation efficiency by eliminating internal nodes. Based on [12], the equivalent modeling method is extended to Power Electronic Transformers (PET) [13,14]. However, this method is only applicable to models with modular cascaded topologies, and special considerations are required when topologies are more complex. So far, no literatures have employed the above equivalent method to accelerate the accurate EMT simulations of the Wind Turbines (WT). A large time step simulation technology for WT is proposed in [15] based on matrix transformation and phasor-domain shifted frequency modeling methods, although reduced the computational burden, it is only fit for sub-/super-synchronous interaction conditions. In [16], the average-value modeling techniques are applied to WT model by representing the characteristics of switching systems with a set of algebraic equations. Yet, the simulation accuracy is efficiency of EMT simulation procedure, but its universality is poor compared with other equivalent programs. In [19], a one-step time-delay parallel method is proposed based on the parallelism of the explicit integration formula of the forward Euler method. The natural decoupling of the network can be achieved by using a single inductor or capacitor. However, due to the low accuracy of the forward Euler method, numerical oscillation problem exists, and its applicability needs to be improved. In [20], a fine-grained electrical circuit partitioning method is proposed in which the graphics processing unit (GPU) based parallel architecture is utilized. In addition, there are many multi-thread