## Modeling of inductive constant power load for electromagnetic-transient simulations–Part II
Kamel Alboaouh a,*, Yaswanth Nag Velaga b, Kumaraguru Prabakar c
a Dept. of Eng. Tech, Norfolk State Univ., 700 Park Ave, RTC Building, Suite 420M, Norfolk VA 23501, USA
b Power Syst. Eng. Center, Nat. Renewable Energy Lab., Golden CO, USA
c Power Syst. Eng. Center, Nat. Renewable Energy Lab., Golden CO, USA

* Corresponding author.
E-mail addresses: kaalboaouh@nsu.edu (K. Alboaouh), yaswanthnag.velaga@nrel.gov (Y.N. Velaga), kumaraguru.prabakar@nrel.gov (K. Prabakar).

### Keywords
EMT simulator, Constant-power-load, Numeric modeling, Load modeling

### Abstract
This paper improves the dynamic constant power (CP) load model that was published in Part I, which is appropriate for electromagnetic-transient (EMT). The improved model conserves all features of its predecessor. For instance, it maintains a fixed power consumption (both active and reactive parts) and a fixed power factor for loads that are predominantly inductive. Furthermore, as the proposed model is a time-dependent system, it is applicable to both sinusoidal and non-sinusoidal case studies. However, the previous model cannot be easily integrated with numeric solvers because it simulated load data over one cycle all together, not sequentially in a time-step manner, due to the limitation involved with the power factor. The improved version, on the contrary, allows the load to be simulated at every time step, which would facilitate its integration with numeric solvers. The model’s validity is confirmed by comparing its response with data that is synthesized from constant impedance load, and the result is satisfactory.

## 1. Introduction
In EMT simulation, it is very important to select a suitable mathematical model of loads to represent the actual load profile [1]. Otherwise, inaccurate load modeling could lead to catastrophic outcomes [2] and collapse [3] due to imprecise simulation results. Thus, practitioners follow these steps to adopt the appropriate load model: (i) identify the load structure that closely aligns with reality, (ii) select the appropriate mathematical load model for the concerned structure, and (iii) determine the model’s parameters [3].

While the literature had classified mathematical load models in various ways, the reference [4] classified them as either static, dynamic, composite, or artificial neural network-based (ANN-based) models. Dynamic load models are time-dependent whereas static models are not, despite the fact that they both are functions of voltage and frequency [5]. There are multiple ways to form composite load models such as by combining both static and dynamic load models. On the other hand, ANN-based load models rely solely on measured data to align with observed system behaviors [4]. After selecting one of the previously mentioned structures, its parameter values can be estimated or identified using either component-based or measurement-based methods [4]. The former method, also known as a "bottom-up" approach, begins with the individual components of the load composition, such as the percentage of load consumed by each type of load’s components. The latter method employs a "top-down" technique by utilizing measured data to estimate the model’s parameters [4].

This study improves the dynamic CP load model in [5] to make it more compatible with EMT simulators. Such a dynamic CP load model is widely used in EMT studies, as suggested in [6], because it acceptably represents a variety of loads like tightly controlled converters or thermostatically controlled air conditioners [7]. Many EMT-featured software adopt different modeling of CP loads such as in PSCAD, LTspice, Matlab-Simulink, or PSSE to accommodate various applications. These software are mainly modeling CP load by dividing the desired-power value by the measured-voltage value (which is dictated by the rest of the electric system) at the designated bus to obtain the current value (in ampere) that shall be drawn (or absorbed) from (or to) the grid to satisfy fixed power consumption constraints [5], (Fig. 1). Unfortunately, this modeling technique is not applicable to non-sinusoidal AC systems.

More sophisticated methods to model the dynamic CP load were reported in the literature by modeling it as an interfacing power electronic converter [8] or by regulating both conductance and susceptance to cancel out voltage’s fluctuations [9] to accommodate harmonic components in the grid; However, such solutions were dependent on discretized) value of the associated variable, while the set N includes all values that are sampled over a definite interval, as defined in (3).
$$N = \{1, 2, \dots, k, \dots, n, \dots\} \quad (3)$$
Based on the above discussion, it can be noticed that EMT simulation and RMS quantities - such as pf, P, Q, or S - are not in harmony with each other’s because the former finds the solution at a specific time instant while the latter is dependent on all instant values within a cycle. Thus, if the CP load model is a function of RMS quantities, as in [5], it cannot be

**Fig. 1.** A generic demonstration of load modeling using a CP load model that can be integrated with EMT simulations; frequency and time-variables are omitted for simplicity - adopted from [5].