# Thévenin Equivalent of Voltage Source Converters for DC Fault Studies
**Himanshu J. Bahirat**, Member, IEEE, **Hans Kr. Høidalen**, Member, IEEE, **Bruce A. Mork**, Senior Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—The paper presents a simple modulation index dependent thévenin equivalent circuit model of the voltage source converters (VSC) and the associated anti-parallel diode rectifier (APDR). The model derivation uses orthogonal transformation and a transformer analogy to transfer impedances to the DC side of the converter. The paper proposes a switched equivalent representation of a three phase diode rectifier formed due to the antiparallel diodes when VSC switching is inhibited. The proposed model is implemented in ATP-EMTP and simulation results are compared with switched model. The proposed model is shown to under predict the fault currents for pole-ground (PG) faults and to provide nearly exact match for pole-pole (PP) faults. The rectifier equivalent provides increased accuracy in the transient region with the inclusion of the source inductance. A multiterminal DC (MTDC) system model is used to study effects of aggregation which gives increased accuracy of the equivalent circuit. It is shown that the MTDC system simulation with proposed thévenin equivalent is about 3 times faster than fullswitched circuit simulation for a time step of 5 µs. The MTDC system simulation with the thévenin equivalent circuit is still accurate and 126 times faster when the time step is increased to 750 µs.

**Index Terms**—HVDC, VSC, Filters, Asymmetrical faults, Protection, Control.

## I. INTRODUCTION

In recent years there has been a growing interest in renewable energy sources and an increasing emphasis on offshore grids [1], [2]. New wind farm topologies with DC output have been proposed for offshore locations [3], [4]. The development of these renewables and offshore resources has been greatly aided by advent of the VSCs. The VSCs are fast becoming a work horse of these new resources. The high voltage MTDC are also becoming feasible due the VSC technology [2], [5].

A physical realization of the MTDC systems have several challenges. Protection is one of the very important and challenging aspects of the DC systems [2], [6]. The protection becomes challenging due to non-existence of cost effective and reliable circuit breaker technology for DC fault current interruption [7], [8]. It is well-known that the DC fault current interruption is particularly difficult due to the absence of current zero crossing, which is crucial to successful current interruption [7]. Also, in order to facilitate the design process for the circuit breaker technology, it is essential that the suitable duty ratings be established. Some promising DC circuit breaker technologies have been recently proposed [8].

A general modeling and control design of the VSC is discussed in [9]. In [9] specific application of the VSC for HVDC transmission is also discussed. A detailed discussion of the conventional HVDC system can be found in [10]. A general overview of the VSC system with applications to MTDC and issues of protection is provided in [11]. An overview of the protection issues associated with the VSC system is provided in [12].

In [13], VSC fault current contributions to the AC network based on simulation including VSC control schemes are analyzed. In this paper the DC faults are of interest both for VSC terminal faults and the MTDC system faults. In case of the MTDC systems with VSC such studies have been usually undertaken with the complete switched circuit and control system simulation [14], [15]. In Tang [16], [17], MTDC system fault characteristics are studied to identify protection requirements and design relay algorithms. In Yang [18], the components of the fault currents produced by VSCs are identified and protection algorithms are devised. In [6], protection scheme for DC network protection is proposed, the paper also proposes use of VSC as fault interrupting devices. In [19], [20], [21] the effect of MTDC topologies, cable and overhead DC lines on the fault current has been analyzed. In [14] rapid collapse of DC voltage is MTDC system is identified as important issue possibly leading to instability. It has to be observed that the fault and protection studies for conventional AC power systems use an thévenin equivalent representation of the generators and other devices.

Equivalent circuit represents the behavior of large and complex systems commensurate with the requirements of the analysis being conducted [22]. For example a synchronous machine can be adequately represented with voltage behind an impedance for purpose of fault calculations. The AC-DC system fault studies use a full switched representation of the converters in simulation. The full converter simulation is time consuming to set-up and takes a long time to simulate. An approach to represent DC-DC converters with equivalent circuits is presented in [23]. The approach represents the DC-DC converters as ideal DC transformers and transfers the input quantities to the output side. The result is a simple equivalent representation of the converter that can be quickly and easily solved. The equivalent circuit approach to represent AC-DC

Himanshu J. Bahirat is with the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, India. e-mail: (hjbahirat@ee.iitb.ac.in)
Bruce A. Mork is with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineer-