# MTOF: A Novel FPGA-Based EMT Toolbox in MATLAB
**Xin Ma**, Member, IEEE, and **Xiao-Ping Zhang**, Fellow, IEEE

**Abstract**—Field programmable gate array (FPGA) is becoming an attractive solution for real-time electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulations. FPGA-based EMT simulation uses thousands of lines of code and sophisticated architecture to satisfy executable requirements ranging from the low-level analog signal to the advanced EMT mathematics. The coding would place a tremendous burden on beginners to take at least 6 months. To provide more straightforward solutions, this paper develops the MATLAB-to-FPGA EMT toolbox (MTOF) in the computational engine framework of MATLAB. Based on Input Data, MTOF under a user-friendly MATLAB environment can generate transparent FPGA-based code while complex programming under FPGA can be avoided. This brings a dramatic coding simplification and results in significant savings of programming time. MTOF includes automatic calculation sequence, resource utilization, and initialization. For high accuracy, MTOF performs the Floating-Point arithmetic of EMT models with more readable data formats (e.g., memory unit) on FPGA. To improve computational efficiency, ready-to-run architecture is presented to automate code generation quickly. MTOF can generate FPGA code files within 50 s and 300 s for the 4-machine 11-bus and 10-machine 39-bus systems, respectively. To verify the effectiveness of the generated FPGA code generated by MTOF, simulations are demonstrated on the two systems using a single FPGA board with high accuracy.

**Index Terms**—Electromagnetic transients simulations, real-time simulations, FPGA, data format, floating-point, toolbox.

Received 18 March 2024; revised 31 July 2024 and 12 December 2024; accepted 26 January 2025. Date of publication 29 January 2025; date of current version 21 August 2025. Paper no. TPWRS-00463-2024. (Corresponding author: Xiao-Ping Zhang.)

The authors are with the Department of Electronic, Electrical and Systems Engineering, School of Engineering, University of Birmingham, B15 2TT Birmingham, U.K (e-mail: x.p.zhang@bham.ac.uk).

Color versions of one or more figures in this article are available at https://doi.org/10.1109/TPWRS.2025.3535841.

Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TPWRS.2025.3535841

## I. INTRODUCTION
FPGA has become a powerful platform to accelerate real-time EMT simulation, due to its powerful reprogramming, parallel processing and fast operation capabilities [1], [2], [3]. FPGA can satisfy the requirements of fast-speed and high-accuracy to perform such EMTs [4], [5], [6].

For FPGA-based EMT design, line-by-line coding is time-consuming using hardware description languages (e.g., VHDL). Users have to deal with parallel programming logic, resource utilization, timing estimation, and route placement [7], [8]. Every EMT mathematical model, network analysis algorithm, data manipulation process is implemented this way. Moreover, any minor modifications will appear in multiple places in the code of FPGA-based EMT. The executable model equations and network matrices require a large number of cryptic code lines from experienced developers [9]. Such a heavy burden is impossible to be finished by beginners within 6 months. It is essential to propose a new toolbox to eliminate design limitations and improve coding efficiency.

Existing real-time EMT simulators already provide advanced high-level FPGA models [10], [11], but the basic-level coding details including component source code or mathematical algorithms for FPGA are unavailable to end-users. Another method is to use high-level synthesis tools (such as Xilinx AccelDSP and Agility compiler) [12] with supported M-codes or C-codes. Owing to repetitive optimizations, this is still time-consuming without strong FPGA hardware and EMT modeling background. In summary, these commercial simulators do not provide tools for the end users to generate transparent FPGA hardware based code automatically, for instance, under widely used MATLAB environment.

To fill in the gap as mentioned above, this paper develops a MATLAB-to-FPGA (MTOF) toolbox in MATLAB environment. The input of the Toolbox includes the system topology and component (synchronous machines, transmission lines, transformers, and etc.) parameters as well as simulation parameters while the output of the Toolbox is the generated transparent code, which can be used directly for EMT simulation on FPGA platform. The proposed MTOF is in particular useful for beginners, who don’t have commercial real-time simulators (e.g., RT-LAB) but they would like to build up real-time simulator using FPGA by themselves. The functionality of MTOF includes setting calculation sequence, saving resource utilization, meeting timing constraints, initialization, allocating memory space and etc. under user-friendly MATLAB environment. The contributions of this paper are summarized as follows:

1) As a teaching tool, MTOF provides accurate models and hardware-implementable designs, making it more convenient for postgraduate courses (e.g., digital design of a real-time EMT simulator using FPGA).
2) As a synthesis tool, complete architecture of MTOF can accelerate the direct translation from high-level data structure to basic-level VHDL code.
3) As a programming tool, in particular for beginners, MTOF can simplify programming FPGA-based EMT system of any topology with user-friendly MATLAB functions.

This rest of the paper is presented as follows: Section II introduces how to convert EMT mathematical models into readable files for hardware. For fast translation, Section III