# Multi-Conductor Cable Modeling With Inclusion of Measured Coaxial Wave Propagation Characteristics
**Bjørn Gustavsen**, Fellow, IEEE

**Abstract**—The prediction of voltage stresses in transformer and machine windings requires the ability to calculate pulse propagation effects on the feeding cable with sufficient accuracy. The use of commonly available cable models in electromagnetic transient (EMT) programs can lead to voltage wave fronts with too weak damping at very high frequencies. This work shows a method for improving the accuracy of such models by usage of measured coaxial mode propagation characteristics. The information is introduced into a wide-band multi-conductor cable model at high frequencies by a merging procedure, with only a minor impact on the non-coaxial modes of propagation. The application of the developed model is demonstrated for cases where the metallic sheaths are grounded at one end only, or are cross-bonded.

**Index Terms**—Cable, modeling, pulse propagation, simulation, very fast transients.

*Manuscript received 14 February 2023; accepted 12 April 2023. Date of publication 21 April 2023; date of current version 25 September 2023. This work was supported by the consortium participants of the SINTEF-led Project FastTrans under Project294508/E20. Paper no. TPWRD-00170-2023.*
*The author is with the SINTEF Energy Research, N-7465 Trondheim, Norway (e-mail: bjorn.gustavsen@sintef.no).*
*Color versions of one or more figures in this article are available at https://doi.org/10.1109/TPWRD.2023.3269143.*
*Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TPWRD.2023.3269143*

## I. INTRODUCTION
Commonly applied electromagnetic transient (EMT) programs have the capability of simulating wave propagation effects on cable systems by use of multi-conductor, frequency-dependent traveling wave models [1], [2]. The input parameters are the per-unit-length (p.u.l.) series impedance $Z(\omega)$ and shunt admittance $Y(\omega)$. These parameters can be calculated for systems of coaxially arranged, tubular conductors with inclusion of skin effect in conductors and earth [3], [4], while proximity effects are normally ignored. The insulation layers are assumed to be lossless. Using $Z$ and $Y$ as input parameters, the matrices of propagation $H$ and characteristic admittance $Y_C$ are calculated as a function of frequency [5] and fitted with low-order, delayed rational functions [1], [2]. The resulting model is usually considered adequate for general transient simulation studies, but it can sometimes be unsatisfactory for steep-fronted voltage pulses, e.g., as shown in [6]. The inaccuracies can be a result of additional losses in conductors and sheaths by e.g., stranding effects, or be a result of high-frequency losses in insulating layers and semiconductive screens.

The accuracy limitation can be overcome by a measurement-based approach where the cable multi-port behavior is characterized using S-parameter frequency sweep measurements, leading to a lumped-parameter terminal equivalent for the cable [7]. The approach requires access to both cable ends, usually implying on-drum measurements. In the case of cables with certain geometry symmetries, the parameters for a traveling wave model can be calculated [8].

High-voltage cables are normally designed with a separate metallic sheath for each phase (core) that is grounded at both cable ends. High-frequency transients will in such case propagate mainly as uncoupled, coaxial waves through the cable system. An alternative measurement approach was introduced in [6] where one-sided voltage transfer measurements were performed on a single core cable, leading to a single-conductor representation of coaxial wave propagation. Following a similar approach as in [7], the p.u.l. parameters of series impedance $z_{\text{coax}}$ and shunt admittance $y_{\text{coax}}$ were extracted, enabling the calculation of parameters of a traveling wave model defined by propagation function $h_{\text{coax}}$ and characteristic admittance $y_{C,\text{coax}}$. The resulting model is suitable for EMT simulation of fast-front wave propagation on cables. The accuracy will, however, deteriorate towards lower frequencies because the magnetic field penetrates the sheaths, thereby violating the assumption of uncoupled coaxial propagation. The proposed model in [6] is therefore not suitable when slow frequency phenomena must be accurately represented in the simulation, in addition to high-frequency phenomena. It is also not suitable if other modes of propagation exist, e.g., when the cable sheaths are cross-bonded or grounded at one end only.

This paper proposes a method for alleviating the limitations of the measurement-based single-conductor model [6] by combining it with a multi-conductor traveling wave model of the complete cable system. The parameters of the multi-conductor model are in this work calculated by the classical procedure [3], [4] which includes skin effect. Section III gives an introduction to transmission line modeling, defining phase domain traveling wave parameters by matrices $H$ (propagation) and $Y_C$ (characteristic admittance), and the decomposition of waves into modes of propagation. Section IV shows a procedure for introducing the measured $h_{\text{coax}}$ and $y_{C,\text{coax}}$ in $H$ and $Y_C$, respectively. An optional filtering method is used such that the modification takes place at high frequencies only. The modified matrices $\tilde{H}$ and $\tilde{Y}_C$ are fitted with rational functions by a standard method to give parameters for the Universal Line Model (ULM) [2]. Section VII demonstrates the ability of the model to produce accurate results at both low and high frequencies, with the classical model as reference for low-frequency behavior and the measured coaxial behavior as reference for high-frequency behavior. Sections VIII