# Multi-layer Earth Structure Approximation by a Homogeneous Conductivity Soil for Ground Return Impedance Calculations
A. G. Martins-Britto, Member, IEEE, F. V. Lopes, Member, IEEE, S. R. M. J. Rondineau, Senior Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—This paper proposes a technique to approximate a multi-layer earth structure by a homogeneous conductivity soil in ground return impedance calculations. An equivalent real-valued conductivity parameter is obtained, which can be used with reasonable accuracy in a simpler expression or in commonly available EMTP software, such as the Line Constants routine of the Alternative Transients Program (ATP). Several actual soil models are evaluated at frequencies ranging from from $1$ Hz to $2$ MHz. Results show that the proposed method is accurate for modeling most power system problems, from steady-state conditions to transients commonly verified in electrical systems. The proposed expression is easy to use and introduces a considerable performance gain in terms of floating-point operations, compared to the analytical formulation of the general multi-layer soil structure.

**Keywords**—Electromagnetic transients, ground return path, line parameters, multi-layer soil, mutual impedances, soil conductivity.

## I. INTRODUCTION
Ground return impedances are present in a variety of problems relevant to power system analysis, including transient simulations, low-frequency electromagnetic interferences, transmission line parameters, short-circuit computations and shield-wire current distribution [1]–[3]. They directly influence self and mutual impedances between conductors and depend on the system geometry, frequency and soil conductivity.

Accounting for the soil conductivity in ground return impedance models is often the most challenging part of transmission line parameters calculation. Soils are complex structures, composed of solid, liquid and gaseous elements, whose electrical conductivity is dependent on the presence of water, particle porosity, type of electrolyte and temperature [4]. Therefore, field measurements are necessary and processing the so-called apparent conductivities to build a realistic soil model requires complex calculations [5].

The first systematic approach on ground return impedances reported in the literature dates back from 1926, with the works of Carson [6]. His original contribution provides expressions in function of an uniform conductivity $\sigma$ that has been studied for decades [3], [7]–[9]. The same happens with a variety of software used by power systems researchers, among which a remarkable example is the Line Constant routine. The majority of real soils are layered media, commonly composed of three to five layers [10]. Therefore, different techniques are required in order to account for the multi-layer nature of actual soil structures. The finite element method (FEM) has been increasingly applied to problems involving heterogeneous soils, as well as analytical expressions have been derived [11], [12]. Although these are precise approaches, they are computationally expensive or subject to numerical instabilities and convergence issues, besides the fact that they are not available in most industry-standard software.

A paper from 2007 published by Tsiamitros et al. proposed an approach for two-layered earth structures, which derives an equivalent homogeneous conductivity parameter [13]. However, two-layered soils are not always suitable for real earth structure representation. Thus, in this paper, an extension of [13] is proposed, in which an equivalent conductivity of the general $N$-layered case is obtained, by means of successively replacing pairs of layers, from bottom to top, by their homogeneous equivalent, calculated in function of the current penetration coefficient of each layer.

Given a configuration of two aboveground conductors, mutual impedances are computed using the uniform equivalent conductivity proposed with the original Carson equation and the general analytical expression for the $N$-layered soil model, and the relative errors are analyzed. A frequency-sweep is performed within the range from $1$ Hz to $2$ MHz, to verify the limits of validity of the proposed method. Tests are carried out with 20 real soil models, with structures varying from 2 to 6 layers. Results show that at the power system frequency range, errors are of the order of $1\%$ only, with the advantage that a much simpler formula is employed, along with a significant performance gain.

Of practical interest to several power systems applications, this work is expected to contribute with a simple, yet accurate method to account for multi-layer soils in ground return problems, especially in transient analysis using EMTP programs.

## II. SOIL CONDUCTION EFFECTS
Almost all natural soils are highly variable in their properties and rarely homogeneous. Soil heterogeneities are related to