## New Compact White-Box Transformer Model for the Calculation of Electromagnetic Transients
Enrique E. Mombello, Senior Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—In a recent work, a successful power transformer white-box model for the calculation of electromagnetic transients has been presented. Although this model gives very satisfactory results, when applied to large transformers it requires a large number of auxiliary loops to model the damping. This can be problematic as it not only requires more computational effort, but the size of the input data may even preclude its use with ATP-EMTP and perhaps with other EMTP-based software that have limitations in this regard. In this work a new reduced model which enables its use with ATP-EMTP is presented. This model requires a much smaller number of circuit components than the original model, which allows the data size and simulation time to be substantially reduced without practically affecting the calculation results. This has been achieved through the reduction of the rank of the submatrices that characterize the inductive coupling between the main winding sections and the auxiliary loops used to model the damping. The new model has been validated by making comparisons of the frequency responses calculated using the new compact model with the ones calculated with the original model developed for the case study used by the CIGRE JWG A2/C4.52 to test the accuracy of various types of transformer models.

**Index Terms**—Transformers, white-box models, model reduction, power system transients, damping modeling.

## I. INTRODUCTION

Power transformers must be designed to withstand surges coming from the power system. As detailed in [1], the main cause of transformer failures reported in the last two decades are the so-called electrical disturbances. Faults that have no clear explanation have often been observed. One possible explanation for these failures is that they are due to resonant phenomena. The analysis of this type of phenomena, for which the damping of the model is of crucial importance [2], [3], requires the use of detailed high frequency transformer models to evaluate the dielectric stresses in different possible scenarios. In recent years, there has been an increasing amount of literature on resonance behavior of power transformers and strategies to develop suitable high frequency transformer models [4]–[14], including book chapters that give a comprehensive treatment of the state of the art [15]–[17]. The most suitable model for this type of analysis is the white-box model, as it is the most complete and detailed. A linear lumped-element model of this type was presented in [1]. The transformer windings are subdivided into a certain number of sections that are represented by circuit elements such as their self- and mutual inductances, resistances and capacitances. These parameters are determined from the geometry of the windings and core and the material properties.

The model presented in [1], which is the state-space version of the circuit model presented in [4], allows the damping characteristics of the transformer windings to be fully represented by using auxiliary loops magnetically coupled with the winding sections and whose purpose is to represent eddy currents in the metallic parts of the active part of the transformer. This strategy is very effective since it simulates the physical phenomena that take place in the structure of the transformer and the results have been very satisfactory. However, the mathematical model as it has been formulated up to now requires the use of a large number of auxiliary loops that increase its size considerably in the case of modelling large transformers. If the number of transformer sections to be modeled is large, a large number of auxiliary loops will be required, which represents a drawback since, on the one hand, it requires a greater calculation effort and, on the other hand, it may even prevent its use with certain programs that have limitations in the number of circuit elements that can be processed.

To give an idea of the dimension of this problem, the case study to be analyzed in this work can be taken as an example. The transformer has been discretized in this case using $n = 213$ sections, which does not seem to be a large number. This would be the dimension of the inductance matrix for a constant inductance model. If on the other hand one wants to model the frequency behavior of each inductance by the model presented in [4] using a partial fraction expansion with $N = 5$ poles for each inductance using auxiliary inductive loops in the equivalent circuit, the expanded inductance matrix dimension becomes $n(N+1) = 1278$. Entering such a matrix as input data in any EMTP-based program is at least highly inconvenient if not infeasible for commercially available software versions. The Alternative Transient Program (ATP), for example, does not allow entering an inductance matrix of order greater than 40. This could be solved by using a decoupled model of the winding section system, represented only by RLC-type branches ($L$ in this case). The drawback would be the large number of inductive branches generated, which for the mentioned case study would

Manuscript received June 11, 2021; revised August 18, 2021 and September 27, 2021; accepted October 5, 2021. Date of publication October 11, 2021; date of current version July 25, 2022. Paper no. TPWRD-00859-2021.

The author is with CONICET, Universidad Nacional de San Juan, San Juan