# Nodal Reduced Induction Machine Modeling for EMTP-Type Simulations
**Damian S. Vilchis-Rodriguez**, Member, IEEE, and **Enrique Acha**, Senior Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—This paper presents two new induction machine models with a direct interface to an external power system, for EMTP-type simulations. The models’ improved efficiency and their overall superiority over existing formulations are shown by numerical simulations involving different machines. It is shown that models that use currents as output variables possess a high degree of numerical accuracy at relatively large time steps making them competitive with a state-of-the-art model that uses the stator currents and rotor fluxes as output variables. The use of a single set of variables is shown to simplify considerably the models’ representations, resulting in highly efficient formulations.

**Index Terms**—EMTP, induction machine, nodal reduction, phase-domain (PD) model, transient simulation, voltage-behind-reactance (VBR) model.

*Manuscript received May 11, 2010; revised May 19, 2010; accepted January 28, 2012. Date of publication March 14, 2012; date of current version July 18, 2012. The work of D. S. Vilchis-Rodriguez was supported by CONACYT, Mexico. Paper no. TPWRS-00364-2010.*  
*D. S. Vilchis-Rodriguez is with the School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, University of Manchester, M13 9PL Manchester, U.K. (e-mail: damian.vilchis-rodriguez@manchester.ac.uk).*  
*E. Acha is with the Department of Electrical Energy Engineering, Tampere University of Technology, FI-33014 Tampere, Finland (e-mail: enrique.acha@tut.fi).*  
*Color versions of one or more of the figures in this paper are available online at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.*  
*Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TPWRS.2012.2186987*

## I. INTRODUCTION
THE modeling of ac machines for transient analysis has been an active topic of research for more than eight decades. The early success of the electricity supply industry was based, to a large degree, on the high reliability and efficiency of three-phase synchronous and induction machines, to the point that even today they still are the basic building block of modern power systems; hence, much effort has been invested in the elaboration of flexible and efficient formulations of three-phase ac machines. The most popular representation for ac machines for transient simulations is the so-called model, based on a series of mathematical transformations aiming at eliminating the time varying coefficients that exist in the physical representation of rotating ac machines [1]. However, the use of only transformed quantities in the machine representation makes difficult the interfacing with the rest of the network which is usually modeled in phase coordinates, given the incompatible reference frames.

To avoid interfacing problems and to improve on the numerical stability of the network simulation, the preferred approach has been to use the machine model on its native phase-domain (PD) representation [2], thus using a unified frame of reference for the entire network. However, the use of such a model increases considerably the computational burden required to attain its numerical solution, since the magnetic coupling of the multiple machine windings is expressed by time varying inductances. This has led to the search of more efficient alternative models.

To improve on the numerical efficiency and accuracy of the PD model, several hybrid machine formulations, combining phase and transformed variables, have been proposed [3]–[5]. Notable among them is the so-called voltage-behind-reactance (VBR) model introduced in [4] using the state-space representation for the synchronous machine. Subsequently, extensions were made for the induction motor [5], showing to be a very stable and efficient formulation. It uses physical stator currents and transformed rotor fluxes as state variables, enabling a direct interface to the power system. In [6], an induction machine model for EMTP-type solutions based on the VBR representation is detailed and comparisons are drawn with the PD model showing to be vastly superior in terms of numerical accuracy and computer efficiency. The stator currents and rotor fluxes are used as output variables, and, more importantly, the numerical stability observed in the state-space representation of the VBR model is much preserved in its EMTP-type version, enabling the use of larger time steps than those of the conventional PD model, further improving the efficiency of the VBR model. In [4], the performance gains in the VBR formulation are attributed to the enhanced numerical stability resulting from a better conditioned set of eigen-values, as a consequence of the use of a mixed set of state variables (current-flux) and a reduction in the number of equations required to model the system, which is linked to a reduction in the number of nodes and branches that describe the machine’s topology. Building on this result, two new models are presented in this paper, the so-called nodal reduced current-flux (NR-CF) and the nodal reduced current-current (NR-CC) model of the induction machine, both of them having an overall superior performance than the VBR.

The main thrust of this work is on the development of efficient EMTP-type three-phase induction machine models with a direct interface to the external power system. The aim is to avoid artificial restrictions on the integration step-size which some methods use in order to overcome error propagation concerns which, incidentally, has been the main weakness of the otherwise very efficient axis model. Two new and very efficient formulations are presented in this paper. Their prowess over existing formulations is emphasized by drawing attention to their numerical properties and computer performance. It is