# Nonlinear Magnetic Equivalent Circuit-Based Real-Time Sen Transformer Electromagnetic Transient Model on FPGA for HIL Emulation
**Jiadai Liu, Student Member, IEEE, and Venkata Dinavahi, Senior Member, IEEE**

**Abstract**—Strategic power-flow control using a Sen transformer (ST) can be a robust and cost-effective solution to relieve grid congestion due to increased installation of renewables. The ST consists of a multiwinding transformer and tap changer that can regulate the power flow through a transmission line by injecting a series-connected controllable voltage. This paper develops a real-time high-fidelity magnetic equivalent circuit-based electromagnetic transient model for the ST on the field-programmable gate array (FPGA) for hardware-in-the-loop applications. This geometry-based model was developed to depict the major flux paths in the transformer core, and complex nonlinear phenomena, such as saturation, hysteresis, and eddy currents. The entire real-time ST model and other power system components are emulated by hardware description language, employing the 32-b floating point precision on the FPGA chip. A fully paralleled and pipelined hardware architecture is developed to achieve accurate real-time emulation as well as the lowest latency and smallest hardware resource consumption. The real-time results are validated against 3-D finite-element simulation using JMAG software.

**Index Terms**—Electromagnetic transient (EMT) analysis, field-programmable gate arrays (FPGAs), finite-element methods, hardware-in-the-loop (HIL) emulation, hysteresis, magnetic equivalent circuits, parallel algorithms, parallel processing, power-flow control, pipelining, real-time systems, Sen transformer (ST).

Manuscript received June 16, 2015; revised October 28, 2015 and December 27, 2015; accepted January 13, 2016. Date of publication January 18, 2016; date of current version November 18, 2016. This work was supported by the Natural Science and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC). Paper no. TPWRD-00743-2015.

The authors are with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB T6G 2V4 Canada (e-mail: jiadai@ualberta.ca; dinavahi@ualberta.ca).

Color versions of one or more of the figures in this paper are available online at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TPWRD.2016.2518676

## I. INTRODUCTION
GROWING demand by a plethora of sensitive loads, stringent reliability constraints, and heightened environmental concerns that favour greater integration of renewables, have created perfect conditions for a highly stressed and dyspeptic transmission grid [1], [2]. Congestion of lines under these conditions has become commonplace with increased probability of major outages leading to blackouts. While long-term transmission planning and expansion still remains the prudent solution, a near term economical alternative might be the strategic placement of power-flow controllers to relieve transmission bottlenecks [3]–[6]. The unified power-flow controller (UPFC) [7], [8] is one such solution which consists of a series and a shunt converter that can generate a compensation voltage to insert in series with the transmission line. The compensation voltage is fully controllable both in magnitude and phase angle with respect to the line voltage, for independent regulation of the active and reactive power flowing through the line in both directions. However, high installation and operation costs have hitherto prevented the UPFC's widespread implementation. The Sen transformer (ST) proposed in [9], can address the same objectives but with a lower cost, higher reliability, and efficiency [10]; however, no ST has been commissioned yet in a power system. The ST consists of a single-core three-limb three-phase transformer and tap changers. The multi-winding transformer has three primary windings and nine secondary windings. By setting the tap changers into different combinations, the ST can inject a compensation voltage with controllable magnitude and phase angle much the same way like the UPFC, thereby providing an independent active power and reactive power-flow control. The concept of the smart power-flow controller (SPFC) was introduced in [11] which offered the ST with the option of either a low-cost electromechanical design with mechanical tap changers or a power electronics-based design using thyristor-based tap changers.

A detailed electromagnetic transient model of the ST in real-time is necessary to study its impact on the host power system. It would also allow rapid testing and prototyping of new control algorithms under hardware-in-the-loop (HIL) conditions [12]. A real-time transient ST model was developed on the CPU in [13], and an advanced tap-changing algorithm was proposed in [14]; however, this real-time ST model was developed based on a lumped electrical circuit model, which ignored the detailed transformer core geometry and flux paths in the core. Furthermore, in this model nonlinear core saturation was included using a piece-wise linear approximation, which is prone to numerical oscillations; complex behavior such as hysteresis and eddy current transients were entirely omitted. The increased computational complexity of detailed electromagnetic transient ST model makes the CPU an unlikely implementation platform for real-time HIL emulation.

This paper proposes a real-time high-fidelity nonlinear magnetic equivalent circuit (MEC)-based ST electromagnetic transient (EMT) model on the field-programmable gate array (FPGA) for HIL emulation. The MEC approach [15], [16] which is geometry-based is employed to model the multi-winding transformer consisting of magnetomotive