Received 1 November 2023; accepted 26 November 2023. Date of publication 30 November 2023; date of current version 4 January 2024. The review of this paper was arranged by Associate Editor Jennifer Bauman.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/OJPEL.2023.3337888

# Numerically Efficient Average-Value Model for Voltage-Source Converters in Nodal-Based Programs
**SEYYEDMILAD EBRAHIMI** (Member, IEEE), **TALEB VAHABZADEH** (Graduate Student Member, IEEE), AND **JURI JATSKEVICH** (Fellow, IEEE)
*Electrical and Computer Engineering Department, The University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z4, Canada*
**CORRESPONDING AUTHOR:** SEYYEDMILAD EBRAHIMI (e-mail: ebrahimi@ece.ubc.ca.)
*This work was supported by the Natural Science and Engineering Research Council (NSERC) of Canada under the Collaborative Research and Development Grant.*

**ABSTRACT** Discrete detailed models of high-frequency switching voltage source converters (VSCs) are accurate but computationally expensive in simulations of large power-electronics-based systems. For fast/efficient studies, the average-value models (AVMs) of VSCs have proven indispensable, which conventionally utilize controlled voltage/current sources to interface with external circuits. In nodal-analysis-based electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation programs with a non-iterative solution, the interfacing variables are computed based on the values of input voltages/currents calculated at the previous time step. This delay may cause numerical inaccuracy and/or instability at large simulation time steps. Recently, a so-called directly-interfaced AVM (DI-AVM) has been developed for VSCs that avoids this delay. In this article, the formulation of the DI-AVM is generalized for an arbitrary configuration of the interfacing nodes. This is done by formulating the extended equivalent conductance matrix for the VSC AVM, assuming all nodes are floating. The generalized conductance matrix is then merged into the overall network nodal equation. The extended DI-AVM is verified in PSCAD/EMTDC against the traditional dependent-source-based AVMs under both balanced and unbalanced conditions and is demonstrated to outperform the conventional AVMs in terms of numerical accuracy at large time steps.

**INDEX TERMS** Average-value model (AVM), conductance matrix, interfacing, nodal, numerical, PSCAD/EMTDC, simulation, voltage source converters (VSCs).

## I. INTRODUCTION
Voltage-source converters (VSCs) possess various advantageous properties, including (but not limited to) independent control of active and reactive power [1], low harmonic distortions, etc. As a result, VSCs are dominantly utilized in many power-electronics-based applications, e.g., wind energy conversion systems, FACTS devices, HVDC light systems [2], modern vehicular, marine, aircraft systems, etc.

Design, study, and analysis of such systems rely on many electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulations [3] that are conducted offline and/or in real-time, e.g., for stability analysis [4], dynamic design/tuning of controllers, etc. In such studies, it is desirable to use time steps as large as possible for simulations to conduct the studies in a shorter amount of time and/or to be able to simulate more extensive networks on a given computational hardware [5], [6].

Depending on the power level, the VSCs may typically operate with switching frequency in the order of several kilo-Hertz (for high-power applications) to tens or hundreds of kilo-Hertz (for low-power applications). The detailed switching models of VSCs capture every discrete switching event and, therefore, accurately reconstruct the input and output waveforms of voltages and currents. Such switching models are also easy to build using conventional library components that are available in many standard EMT simulators. However, switching models require accordingly small time steps and/or interpolations for correctly handling the actual discrete switching events [7], [8]. Processing all discrete switching events puts a heavy computational burden on the simulators and limits the size of systems that may be practically implemented in a given EMT tool. Detailed switching models are also not conducive to stability analysis of interconnected VSC-based power grids [9], [10].

The average-value models (AVMs) have been developed for power-electronic converters to capture the slower average dynamics [10], [11]. This is achieved by formulating the AVMs based on the average values of the variables where the discrete switching phenomena are neglected (averaged out) [10], [11]. Since the AVMs are independent of the switching events, they can be simulated with much larger time steps and are computationally more efficient than their switching model counterparts. The AVMs are also continuous models and can be readily linearized for small-signal analysis [9], [10].

Generalized averaging methods [12], [13] were also developed to include the switching ripples in addition to the average values while retaining the faster simulation speeds associated with AVMs. A piecewise state-space averaging method was also developed in [14] with improved accuracy under large ripple and disturbance conditions in power-electronic-based power systems. Implementing control feedback loops in VSC-based systems may also necessitate a time-step relaxation delay in non-iterative solutions [29].

Recently, a methodology for the so-called directly-interfaced AVMs (DI-AVMs) has been developed in [30], [31], [32] for power-electronic converters implemented in nodal-analysis-based simulators. The new approach avoids the artificial interfacing time-step delay inherent to the traditional dependent-source-based AVMs. However, the DI-AVMs in [30], [31], [32] have been formulated with simplifying assumptions on the structure of the converter terminal nodes. Specifically, they require the negative terminal of the dc-side system and the neutral point of the ac-side subsystem to be grounded. This modeling limitation imposes constraints, requiring the ac subsystem not to have any zero-sequence voltages; otherwise, unwanted zero-sequence currents can flow due to the node structure of the DI-AVM. Additionally, the implementation of multiple AVMs of converters also becomes more difficult.