# On-site measurement of the hysteresis curve for improved modelling of transformers

J.L. Velásquez a, *, K. Vennemann b, P. Wischtukat a  
a Hubert Göbel GmbH, DE, 59199 Germany  
b Amprion GmbH, DE, 70173 Germany  

**Keywords:** Electromagnetic transients, Inrush currents, Harmonics, Hysteresis, Saturation

**Abstract:** Transient simulations are usually carried out to analyse the behaviour of control and protection systems when performing switching action in power transformers. For this reason, the saturation curve and/or the hysteresis curve of the transformer must be properly modelled. However, in most of the cases the real saturation/hysteresis curve of a transformer is not known, because such measurements are not carried out as part of the factory tests of a transformer. This article describes a method to measure the hysteresis- and saturation curve with a portable measuring system on-site. The added value of the measured saturation curve is illustrated through an example, in which a single-phase low voltage transformer is modelled. This example shows the added value of a measurement-based modelling. An additional example illustrates measurement of the hysteresis curve of 350 MVA, 420/110 kV power transformers.

## 1. Introduction

For the analysis of the behaviour of protection and control systems, as well as for an evaluation of the transient stress of equipment in a plant, precise knowledge of the processes occurring during grid events (e.g. switching of circuit breakers, faults) is of particular interest. Against this background, usually simulation studies in EMT domain are carried out. However, the value of a simulation study depends to a large extent on the quality of the modelling of the equipment and the correct representation of the physical phenomena that are of interest.

Power transformers can cause high magnetising (inrush) currents when they are connected to the grid. These inrush currents are influenced by the switch-on time, the non-linearity of the saturation characteristic and the residual remanence of the iron core and exhibit characteristic harmonics.

Switching operations of transformers can thus excite resonances in the power system (e.g., in case of high voltage cables in the in electrical proximity) that have a negative effect on the operation of a system (stress on equipment or malfunction of protection and control systems).

For a realistic simulation of these effects, it is consequently important to model the hysteresis and saturation characteristic of the transformer as realistic as possible. In contrast to current and voltage transformers, the measurement of the saturation characteristic of a transformer is in general not part of the factory tests. As a result, a simplified saturation curve based on factory test reports (no-load measurement) is often derived and used for modelling in the practice. Based on the results of the short-circuit impedance and measurement of the no-load losses, the saturation curve is usually estimated. In [1] it is explained how the saturation characteristic can be determined in the saturated, linear range depending on the transformer type. In addition, the manufacturer often carries out no-load loss measurements at 90%, 100% and 110% of the rated voltage of the transformer. These measured values are often used to estimate a simplified saturation characteristic based on effective values ($V_{\text{RMS}}$, $I_{\text{RMS}}$) [2]. For simulation studies in the EMT domain, however, the RMS values must be converted into instantaneous values. For this purpose, most EMT programs have specific routines that perform the corresponding conversion [3,4]. An exact calculation of inrush currents is not always necessary, i.e., depending on the study purpose a rough estimate might sometimes be sufficient. Nevertheless, for some applications, an exact calculation of the inrush currents of transformers can be of particular interest. This does not only include an exact calculation of the peak values, but also a correct representation of the harmonic content of inrush currents. In [5], for example, it is pointed out that the inrush of a transformer after a fault in an offshore HVDC grid can endanger both the stable operation of the HVDC grid and the stable operation of wind turbines.

In the literature, there are various studies on transformer modelling for the calculation of inrush currents. In [2] the inrush currents calculated using different transformer models were compared with each other. It is concluded that an exact modelling of the saturation characteristic is crucial to validate the model against measurements.

Since the saturation curve is usually not measured either at factory or on-site, research works in this direction are needed. Different publications dealing with the determination of saturation curves from measured data can be found in the literature. Some of these publications focus on the derivation of saturation curves from measured data during energization transients. In [6], for example, a procedure is described where the energization of the transformer is detected with the help of a Kalman filter. Subsequently, the saturation curve is calculated from the measured waveforms.

Another method is to carry out a measurement with alternating voltage (50 Hz). Depending on the application for which the transformer was designed, a powerful voltage source with a relatively large amplitude must be provided for this measurement. This should ideally be well above the nominal voltage (1.2 - 1.4 p.u.) of the respective transformer in order to take the saturation effects into account. For power transformers at high or extra-high voltage levels, this is sometimes difficult to realise, especially for on-site measurements.

To overcome this disadvantage, another measuring method can be used. This method is based on a voltage source with variable or reduced frequency to reduce the required voltage amplitude.

**Fig. 1.** Setup for measurement of the hysteresis curve with DC.