# Optimized high-frequency white-box transformer model for implementation in ATP-EMTP.

Enrique Esteban Mombello a, *, Guillermo Guidi Venerdini a, Guillermo Andrés Díaz Flórez b  
a CONICET, Universidad Nacional de San Juan, Instituto de Energia Electrica, San Juan, Argentina  
b Universidad de La Salle, Bogota, Colombia  

**Keywords:** Power transformer, Reduced white-box models, Alternative transient program (ATP), Transient overvoltages  

**Abstract:** Although several high frequency white-box transformer models have been proposed in the literature, the methodology for their implementation in some programs based on EMTP has not been addressed in detail. This is true in particular for ATP, for which the representation of large transformer models is particularly problematic. This work aims to enable the use of ATP to model detailed transformer equivalent circuits, which would otherwise be seriously questioned. To establish these circuit models, the following must be taken into account: model reduction, magnetic circuit decoupling, avoid numerical instability, limit and optimize the use of resistors, generate ATP versions capable of processing large models. To this end, three generally valid methodologies are presented to reduce the model without compromising the accuracy of the calculation results and, finally, additional specific methodologies are implemented to reduce and adapt the models in the ATP environment. The application of these methodologies results in six possible variants of reduced models, which were successfully validated through a case study used by CIGRE JWG A2/C4.52 to verify the accuracy of transformer models.

## 1. Introduction

Power transformers are very important components of power systems. They are very costly assets and their replacement in the event of failure is problematic. The most frequent causes of transformer failures are overvoltages coming from the network. The most studied overvoltages are those due to lightning strikes, the most representative example of the so-called Fast Transients (FT), which represent a threat to transformers. That is why manufacturers have developed various design strategies over time in order to mitigate the effects of these stresses on the internal structure of the transformer. In order to study these effects, it is essential to have efficient analysis tools to be able to predetermine dangerous stresses. High-frequency white-box models are specially designed for this purpose and are widely used in the design stage. In-depth knowledge of the frequency behavior of the inductive impedances of the transformer is necessary to determine reliable models. These models are based on the discretization of the windings, which are divided into sections.

These sections are represented by discrete circuit elements such as self- and mutual inductances, resistances and capacitances [1–5]. All of these parameters are determined from the geometry of the windings and iron core and the properties of the materials. Each winding section is considered a single inductor, which is magnetically coupled to all other sections. The degree of detail of the discretization must be sufficient to achieve adequate results based on the bandwidth of the applied voltage waveform. There are models of this type able to represent the frequency variation of both inductances and resistances, which is very important in the study of the effects of possible internal resonances in the transformer windings. The models presented in [7,8] are examples of models of this type. The first one is based on an equivalent circuit and the second on a state-space model.

The most widely used EMT-type programs, such as PSCAD, EMTP-RV and ATP, have the ability to model power transformers based on equivalent circuits. The drawback of the detailed model proposed in [7] is the extremely large size of the circuit, which cannot be handled by many programs. An alternative to avoid this problem is to use state-space models, which also entails the problem that not all programs support models of this type with the required characteristics. These latter models generally take the form of terminal (black or gray box) models from white-box state-space models. The introduction of these terminal (non-circuital) models in EMT programs is neither simple nor straightforward. Recently, methodologies have been proposed for the use of these models, such as reference [9], which presents a direct method by which the model is represented by admittance parameters. Reference [10] shows how to directly include the model [9] in EMTP-RV, without applying a rational fitting. ATP does not support such models. An alternative black-box model with a circuit implementation is described in [11], which applies to all EMT programs. A

a) A specific method for the model [7] is used [22]. Its goal is to reduce the number of necessary auxiliary loops while maintaining a correct representation of the frequency behavior of the impedances.  
b) Optimization of the degree of discretization of the model. Valid for all white-box models.  
c) Use of a reduced number of poles for the representation of the

**Abbreviations:** ATP, Alternative Transient Program; EMT, Electromagnetic Transient; EMTP, Electromangnetic Transient Program; FEM, Finite Element Method; FEMM, Finite Element Method Magnetics; FFT, Fast Fourier Transform; PSO, Particle Swarm Optimization; FT, Fast Transients; VFT, Very Fast Transients.  
* Corresponding author.  
E-mail address: eemombello@unsj.edu.ar (E.E. Mombello).