# Parametric Study of Transient Electromagnetic Fields Due to Overhead Transmission Lines and Buried Cables in the Vicinity of Lossy Ground

Pooya Taheri, Student Member, IEEE, Behzad Kordi, Member, IEEE, and Aniruddha M. Gole, Fellow, IEEE

**Abstract**—In this paper, the problem of calculating transient electromagnetic fields due to frequency-dependent multiconductor overhead transmission lines above lossy ground and underground cables buried in lossy soil is studied by decomposing the transmission line into a number of small segments. A modified finite-difference time-domain technique is applied to find the current passing through each segment of the excited transmission line. The contribution of each segment on the total electric and magnetic fields is calculated using two frequency-domain analytical techniques. The theoretical background and extent of validity of each technique are presented, and the results derived by applying each method are compared with those obtained using a commercial software package. The time-domain solution is then obtained using Fourier and Inverse Fourier transforms. Finally, the effects of different electrical and geometrical parameters, such as conductivity and relative permittivity of the ground and conductor sag of the transmission line, are studied.

**Index Terms**—Cables, electromagnetic transient analysis, power system transients, power transmission lines.

*Manuscript received August 09, 2010; revised March 24, 2011; accepted May 23, 2011. Date of publication July 11, 2011; date of current version October 07, 2011. This work was supported in part by the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council (NSERC) of Canada and in part by Manitoba Hydro. Paper no. TPWRD-00604-2010.*

*The authors are with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB R3T 5V6, Canada (e-mail: ptaherig@ualberta.ca; Behzad_Kordi@umanitoba.ca; gole@ee.umanitoba.ca).*

*Color versions of one or more of the figures in this paper are available online at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.*
*Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TPWRD.2011.2158592*

## I. INTRODUCTION

Due to their expansive physical dimensions, power transmission networks are critical components of a power system from an electromagnetic point of view. Electromagnetic fields are produced during normal and transient operation of transmission lines and buried cables. Electromagnetic interference can cause major problems for electronic devices installed in the vicinity of transmission networks used for measurement, protection, and control purposes [1]. Furthermore, electromagnetic coupling is a strong source of interference. Mitigation of this interference requires an understanding of parameters which affect the coupling. To ensure normal functioning of the equipment present in this electromagnetic environment, the transient electromagnetic fields must be calculated accurately [2], [3]. These issues underline the need for accurate evaluation of electromagnetic fields arising from exposure to power transmission lines. Since the measurement experiments are difficult and expensive, analytical and numerical techniques for the calculation of induced or radiated electromagnetic fields have been of interest to the researchers [4].

Research on the calculation of electric and magnetic fields in a two-layered medium (e.g., air and ground) due to a finite-length transmission line was initiated by Sommerfeld [5], and has been considered by many researchers. In order to find the transient electric and magnetic fields associated with a power transmission line, in [6], the transient current waveform carried by the transmission line is decomposed into a number of ramp functions. The total electromagnetic field is then obtained as the summation of the responses to all the ramp functions. The accuracy of this model is heavily dependent on the number of ramp functions used for the approximation. Also, this model is only applicable for simple radiating structures for which the ramp response of the system is already obtained [7]. Analytical solution, based on solving Telegrapher’s equations, has also been investigated. This solution has been applied to both lossless [7] and lossy [8] power transmission lines. The applicability of this approach is restricted to an infinitely-long transmission line located above perfectly conducting ground.

In many applications, a transmission line is divided into a number of small dipoles [9], [10]. The total radiated electromagnetic field is calculated as the summation of all the contributions from each constituent dipole. Ease of use and generality of the so called dipole technique have made it possible to employ this method for a wide range of applications in electromagnetic interference problems, such as power system switching transients [11], lightning return stroke modeling [9], electromagnetic radiation in high voltage substations [12], and transmission-line electromagnetic fields [13]. However, in these applications, the assumptions of perfectly-conducting ground and frequency-independent conductor loss have been used to simplify the problem.

The goal of this paper is to propose a general technique for the calculation of transient electromagnetic fields associated with overhead power transmission lines and underground cables of finite length, located above or buried in lossy ground. In this approach, we make no simplifying assumption with respect to the frequency dependence of the transmission-line parameters, ground conductivity and permittivity, finite length and geometry of the line. The dipole technique is employed to decompose the transmission line or cable into a number of dipoles located above or buried in a lossy half-space. To calculate the electric and magnetic fields associated with each dipole, two frequency-domain approaches, complex image theory [14] and King’s approximation