# ParaEMT: An Open Source, Parallelizable, and HPC-Compatible EMT Simulator for Large-Scale IBR-Rich Power Grids

Min Xiong, Student Member, IEEE, Bin Wang, Senior Member, IEEE, Deepthi Vaidhynathan, Senior Member, IEEE, Jonathan Maack, Matthew J. Reynolds, Andy Hoke, Senior Member, IEEE, Kai Sun, Fellow, IEEE, and Jin Tan, Senior Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—The electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation is an essential tool for studying power grids dominated by inverter-based resources (IBRs). However, due to small simulation time steps and increasing problem sizes, performing EMT simulations for large-scale power grids becomes computational-intensive, and often impractical. To address this challenge, we developed ParaEMT, an open-source Python-based EMT simulator that is parallelizable and compatible with high-performance computing (HPC) systems for simulating large-scale power grids with a significant presence of IBRs. Its key features include: 1) utilizing parallel computation for network solution by decomposing the network conductance matrix into the bordered block diagonal form; 2) enabling parallel updates of device states and network historical currents; 3) leveraging HPC to further accelerate simulation through a developed generic interface. The accuracy of ParaEMT has been validated on the reduced 240-bus (720-node) Western Electricity Coordinating Council system by benchmarking the EMT dynamics against PSCAD. Furthermore, ParaEMT achieves a notable speedup of approximately 25 to 36 times on a synthetic 10,080-bus (30240-node) system by leveraging the HPC resource named Eagle at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory. A regional 100% renewable case of the reduced 240-bus system has been developed for simulating system-wide IBRs’ interactions in large-scale power grids using ParaEMT.

**Index Terms**—Power system dynamics, electromagnetic transient simulation, inverter-based-resource, large-scale systems, nodal formulation, bordered block diagonal matrix, parallel computation, high-performance computing.

**Manuscript received** 28 June 2023; revised 11 October 2023; accepted 4 December 2023. Date of publication 13 December 2023; date of current version 26 March 2024. This work was supported in part by the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL), operated by Alliance for Sustainable Energy, LLC, for the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) under Contract DE-AC36-08GO28308 through the Laboratory Directed Research and Development (LDRD) Program and in part by the U.S. DOE’s of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy (EERE) under the Solar Energy Technologies Office under Award 38457. Paper no. TPWRD-00902-2023. (Corresponding author: Jin Tan.)

Min Xiong is with National Renewable Energy Laboratory, Golden, CO 80401 USA, and also with the University of Tennessee, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA (e-mail: mxiong3@vols.utk.edu).
Bin Wang was with National Renewable Energy Laboratory, Golden, CO 80401 USA. He is now with the University of Texas at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX 78249 USA (e-mail: bin.wang2@utsa.edu).
Deepthi Vaidhynathan, Jonathan Maack, Matthew J. Reynolds, Andy Hoke, and Jin Tan are with National Renewable Energy Laboratory, Golden, CO 80401 USA (e-mail: deepthi.vaidhynathan@nrel.gov; jonathan.maack@nrel.gov; matthew.reynolds@nrel.gov; andy.hoke@nrel.gov; jin.tan@nrel.gov).
Kai Sun is with the University of Tennessee, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA (e-mail: kaisun@utk.edu).

## I. INTRODUCTION

With the proliferation of inverter-based resources (IBRs) in power grids in recent decades, there is a broad consensus that electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation is a critical element for addressing IBR integration, especially in bulk power grids with high levels of IBRs [1]. Some of notable drivers of performing EMT studies for bulk power grids include sub-synchronous oscillations [2], sub-synchronous control interactions [3], integration of IBRs into a weak grid, unbalanced fault’s impact on grids, and potential misoperation of protection systems [2], [4], [5], [6]. To better study and understand the impact of IBRs on system-level dynamics of power grids, offline numerical simulations provide an economical alternative to the digital real-time simulators and transient network analyzers [6]. Among the offline tools, phasor-based electromechanical transient simulations focus on slower dynamics, e.g., <5 Hz, and use time steps of around milliseconds to simulate positive-sequence states. Although phasor simulations are relatively fast, they cannot accurately capture the complex dynamics of IBRs that cover a wide range of frequencies, up to tens or hundreds of hertz. In comparison, three-phase instantaneous value-based electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulations utilize fundamental circuit models without assumptions on system frequencies and can accurately represent fast and detailed dynamics [6], [7], and thus they can be used to de-risk the integration of high penetration levels of IBRs. Implementing fundamental circuit models and ensuring the model accuracy and numerical stability require small time steps of approximately 50–100 microseconds or smaller, which makes EMT simulations extremely time-consuming, especially for large-scale applications where the dimensions of three-phase systems become very high. Therefore, accelerating EMT simulations has been of great interest and significance for evaluating fast dynamic risks in practical planning and operations of power grids [8].

As multicore processors have become commonplace, considerable effort has been directed toward parallel computations for EMT simulations of large power grids [9]. Traditionally, the parallelization of EMT simulations relied on exploiting the natural decoupling between subnetworks that arises from the traveling wave propagation delay across long-distance distributed parameter transmission lines and cables in a manual way; however, the performance of this approach is constrained