# Parallel Massive-Thread Electromagnetic Transient Simulation on GPU
**Zhiyin Zhou, Student Member, IEEE, and Venkata Dinavahi, Senior Member, IEEE**

*Manuscript received August 16, 2012; revised May 08, 2013, July 12, 2013, and October 22, 2013; accepted December 23, 2013. Date of publication February 17, 2014; date of current version May 20, 2014. This work is supported by the Natural Science and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC). Paper no. TPWRD-00863-2012.*
*The authors are with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB T6G 2V4 Canada (e-mail: zhiyin@ualberta.ca; dinavahi@ualberta.ca).*

**Abstract**—The electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation of a large-scale power system consumes so much computational power that parallel programming techniques are urgently needed in this area. For example, realistic-sized power systems include thousands of buses, generators, and transmission lines. Massive-thread computing is one of the key developments that can increase the EMT computational capabilities substantially when the processing unit has enough hardware cores. Compared to the traditional CPU, the graphic-processing unit (GPU) has many more cores with distributed memory which can offer higher data throughput. This paper proposes a massive-thread EMT program (MT-EMTP) and develops massive-thread parallel modules for linear passive elements, the universal line model, and the universal machine model for offline EMT simulation. An efficient node-mapping structure is proposed to transform the original power system admittance matrix into a block-node diagonal sparse format to exploit the massive-thread parallel GPU architecture. The developed MT-EMTP program has been tested on large-scale power systems of up to 2458 three-phase buses with detailed component modeling. The simulation results and execution times are compared with mainstream commercial software, EMTP-RV, to show the improvement in performance with equivalent accuracy.

**Index Terms**—Electromagnetic transient analysis, graphics processors, massive-thread, parallel algorithms, parallel programming, power system simulation.

## I. INTRODUCTION

THE USE of electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation tools is no longer restricted to specialized studies that focus on analyzing the propagation of EM transients. Due to their versatility and breadth of modeling capability, offline EMT simulation tools, such as EMTP-RV [1], PSCAD/EMTDC [2], Alternative Transients Program (ATP) [3] etc., are routinely used in the planning, design, and operation of power systems, to study dynamic phenomena over a wide frequency range—from steady-state studies, such as load flow and harmonic analysis, to high-frequency studies, such as restrike overvoltages in gas-insulated substations [4]. Along with modeling and application diversity, the size of the power system simulated by EMT tools has grown concomitantly [5]. These days, it is not uncommon to simulate in detail systems containing hundreds of buses using such tools. Nevertheless, the common characteristic of the aforementioned EMT simulation tools is that they are single-thread sequential programs designed to run efficiently on single-core CPUs based on the x86 processor architecture. Throughout the 1990s and 2000s, the CPU clock speed steadily increased and memory costs decreased, fueling a sustained increase in the speed of these programs. But now with the clock speed saturated around 3 GHz due to chip power dissipation and fabrication constraints, the computer industry has transitioned to multicore CPU and many-core GPU hardware architectures, which require multithread parallel programming. Executing a single-thread EMT program on a multicore architecture is inefficient because the code is executed on a single core, one instruction after another in a homogeneous fashion, unable to exploit the full resource of the underlying hardware. The overall performance of the code can be severely degraded especially when simulating large-scale systems with high data throughput requirements. A multithread parallel code can provide substantial gain in speed and throughput over a single-thread sequential code on the multicore architecture. Even on single-core processor systems, multiple threads can add palpable performance improvement in some applications. What this means for the EMT program is that the system component models and the EMT algorithm need to be reformulated to be executed in parallel on multiple cores. Since data independence is the key requirement for efficient parallel programming, the serial component models and network data structure have to be transformed to meet this requirement. Although the focus of this paper is offline EMT simulation, it is worth mentioning that real-time EMT simulation tools are available, such as RSCAD and Hypersim, etc., which can also run offline simulations on multicore CPUs. However, these tools do require specialized expensive hardware to run real-time EMT simulation.

In this paper, we propose a GPU-based parallel massive-thread EMT simulation program (MT-EMTP). The GPU [6]–[8] has native parallel many-core processing units and high-performance floating-point number processors. To circumvent understanding the cumbersome assembly language of GPU, compute unified device architecture (CUDA) [9], a general-purpose parallel computing environment, was introduced by NVIDIA to offer an efficient C-like language to develop an application. Researchers have already begun to exploit GPUs for power system applications [10]–[18], such as data visualization, load-flow computations, electromagnetic transient, and transient stability simulations. The objective of this paper is to develop massive-thread parallel modules for