# Parallel-in-Time Simulation Algorithm for Power Electronics: MMC-HVdc System
**Suman Debnath, Member, IEEE**

**Abstract**—The complexity in simulating power electronics like modular multilevel converters (MMCs) requires simulation algorithms to speed-up the process. Existing simulation algorithms exploit spatial parallelism to speed-up simulation. With rise in complexity of power electronics and presence of increased number of states within them, there are limits in the speed-up using spatial parallelism. In this paper, a temporal parallelism algorithm based on parallel-in-time methods is developed for simulation of power-electronics-systems. The temporal parallelism algorithm is based on computation of power-electronics-states on coarse and fine time-steps using different models. The models of power-electronics-systems used in coarse and fine time-steps are average-value and detailed models, respectively. The updates to states on coarse time-step are computed serially and are used to initialize the states on fine time-step. The updates on fine time-step are computed in parallel. A translation method is proposed in this paper to update the states on fine time-step from the simulations in the coarse time-step, and vice-versa. The proposed algorithm is applied to simulate MMCs and is validated with respect to a detailed reference MMC model. The proposed algorithm recorded a speed-up of up to 3.47x with 5 cores.

**Index Terms**—Electro-magnetic transient simulation, non-linear non-autonomous switched systems, temporal parallelism, parallel-in-time, multigrid reduction in time (MGRIT).

Suman Debnath is with Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Knoxville, TN 37932, USA (email: debnaths@ornl.gov).

This work was supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability through its Transformer Resilience and Advanced Components program.

This manuscript has been authored by UT-Battelle, LLC under Contract No. DE-AC05-00OR22725 with the U.S. Department of Energy. The United States Government retains and the publisher, by accepting the article for publication, acknowledges that the United States Government retains a non-exclusive, paid-up, irrevocable, world-wide license to publish or re

## I. INTRODUCTION
MODULAR multilevel converters (MMCs) are being used/researched in various applications like high-voltage direct current (HVdc) transmission systems, flexible ac transmission systems (FACTS), industrial motor drives, and others [1]. They compose of a very large number of states and require small time-steps ($\sim \mu\text{s}$) to simulate them. The presence of non-linear switched systems in the MMCs introduces numerical stiffness in the differential algebraic expressions (DAEs) that represent the converter dynamics. This numerical stiffness further complicates the simulation of MMCs [2]. These converters have been modeled and simulated using algorithms that utilize spatial parallelism [2]–[7]. The spatial parallelism is based on separation of dynamics of individual arms in the MMC and is limited to 6 threads of parallelism, which is same as the number of arms in the MMC. However, as the number of submodules (SMs) increases in each arm towards thousands, the computational burden imposed by the serial computations within each arm increases. The serial computations within each arm are of the order of updating a large number of states ($\sim 1000\text{s}$) in very small time-steps ($\sim \mu\text{s}$). The limits to further applying spatial parallelism within each arm are imposed by the latencies associated in typical computational systems to access memory and retrieve data for computation purposes.

The basic abstract mathematical concepts explored in parallel-in-time methods include parareal and multigrid reduction-in-time (MGRIT) methods. The corresponding theory to simulate power system dynamics have been developed in [8], [9]. There has been no theoretical developments for parallel-in-time electro-magnetic transient (EMT) simulation of power electronics. The EMT simulation of power electronics utilize non-linear non-autonomous hybrid switched system models [2] that are different from the models in the aforementioned