# Partitioned fitting and DC correction in transmission line/cable models for wideband EMT studies

Miguel Cervantes$^{a,*}$, Ilhan Kocar$^{a}$, Jean Mahseredjian$^{a}$, Abner Ramirez$^{b}$
$^{a}$ Polytechnique Montreal, Montréal, Québec, Canada
$^{b}$ CINVESTAV Campus Guadalajara, Guadalajara, Mexico

*Corresponding author.*
E-mail addresses: miguel.cervantes-martinez@polymtl.ca (M. Cervantes), ilhan.kocar@polymtl.ca (I. Kocar), jean.mahseredjian@polymtl.ca (J. Mahseredjian), abner.ramirez@cinvestav.mx (A. Ramirez).

## Abstract
This paper extends the applications of and provides further insights about partitioned fitting procedure. At the first stage of this procedure, the fitting is performed at a high frequency band by excluding frequency samples close to DC. The second stage finds a correction term for those excluded samples. This procedure achieves improved accuracy for the demonstrated case of transmission lines and cables used for HVDC transmission. The new approach complements the prevailing Universal Line Model (ULM) by reducing numerical instabilities due to large residue/pole ratios while delivering accurate DC response. This paper provides also time-domain implementation details of the state space realization obtained with partitioned fitting. The numerical stability performance of the improved fitting approach is demonstrated, through a set of test cases by applying different integration and interpolation schemes.

## 1. Introduction
The transient analysis of DC transmission lines has become of special interest with the increasing number of planned and installed HVDC systems [1-4]. The transmission line models for the simulation of such systems require covering a wide range of frequencies including those very close to DC.

This paper is based on the usage of the universal line model (ULM) [5] approach with the implementation details provided in [6] in the modeling and simulation of HVDC lines. Numerical implementation of ULM in EMT-type programs relies on representing line functions, i.e., propagation function ($H$) and characteristic admittance ($Y_c$) by rational function approximations, i.e., partial fractions, which are provided by existing curve fitting techniques [7]. One practice to capture the DC response in the ULM is to specify a very low frequency for fitting $H$ and $Y_c$. However, this approach often leads to incorrect solutions for the DC steady-state voltages and currents due to generally poor DC fitting [8-9]. Moreover, it is prone to generate pairs of large residue/pole ratios with opposing signs from different modal groups in the fitting of $H$, which may cause numerical stability problems in time domain simulations [9-12]. Adapting more accurate integration techniques and a two-segment interpolation scheme, as proposed in [11], reduces integration errors and helps maintaining numerical stability in time domain in most cases. However, the large residue/pole ratios in the fitting of $H$ are not removed. The frequency dependent cable model (FDCM), presented in [12], proposes a new method for correcting cases with numerical problems due to large residue/pole ratios. In FDCM, the large ratios are avoided by decomposing the propagation function $H$ into grouped modal contributions. The modal contribution groups are smooth functions of frequency and are fitted in phase domain. However, it is not always possible to apply this approach to aerial lines, due to the particular characteristics of eigenvalues; therefore, the problem of poor fitting at low frequencies is even more emphasized.

The fitting procedure of ULM can be modified [8] by forcing the exact DC response of $H$ in the rational approximation. However, this modification requires an additional optimization step of residues to reduce the acquired high-frequency errors.

The method presented in [9], maintains a low frequency representation of the line model by using an additional low-order fitting function that compensates fitting errors at low frequencies. However, this approach still requires a large frequency fitting range and may cause large residue/pole ratios that can produce numerical instabilities in time domain computations.

The idea of using a two-stage fitting method was briefly proposed in the form of a letter publication in [10]. The objective was to improve the fitting of FDCM by performing an additional step of fitting for low frequency samples. The first stage performs fitting by excluding very low (close to DC) frequency samples. The second stage finds a correction function for the initially excluded samples close to DC. This approach helps also avoiding large residue/pole ratios occurring in the classic ULM approach. The approach in [10] was named Frequency Dependent Model with DC correction (FDM/DC).

This paper provides further details on the fitting process of FDM/DC model. Additional test cases are studied to evaluate the performance of the fitting. The time-domain implementation is fully revealed. Finally, numerical stability performances of FDM/DC and ULM techniques are studied by applying different integration and interpolation schemes via a new test case. The summary of the paper is as follows. In Section 2, the paper presents the theory of line/cable modeling using distributed parameters and the main equations for ULM and FDCM models. The previously proposed FDM/DC approach is reviewed in Section 3. Section 4 presents a generic formulation to express the discrete form of time domain convolutions to implement the proposed model. The impact of improving the fitting of $H$ at low frequencies in time-domain...

### 2.3. Frequency-dependent cable model (FDCM)
Although the ULM is applicable for most line/cable configurations, it generates unstable models in some cases [12]. The origin of the problem relies on t