## Partial Refactorization Techniques for Electromagnetic Transient Simulations
Boris Bruned, Senior Member, IEEE, Anas Abusalah, Jean Mahseredjian, Life Fellow, IEEE, Sébastien Dennetière, Member, IEEE, and Omar Saad, Senior Member, IEEE

**Abstract—** This paper explores partial refactorization techniques to accelerate the simulation of Electromagnetic Transients (EMTs) in power systems. Direct sparse left-looking LU factorization from the KLU solver is used to solve network equations. The refactorization step can be time-consuming if the factorized matrix varies often as the simulation involves power electronics switching or nonlinear devices. A path-based partial refactorization technique is proposed to accelerate the re-computation of LU factors. In the left-looking algorithm, only a subset of columns that belong to the computed factorization path are refactorized. In addition, Block Triangular Factorization (BTF) is enhanced through partial refactorization, which further accelerates computation through smaller, evolving submatrices. The new techniques are tested on large power grids. Substantial performance gains are achieved.

**Index Terms—** Electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation, direct sparse linear solver, left-looking LU factorization, partial refactorization, factorization path.

## I. INTRODUCTION
In the scope of Energy Transition, the circuit-based Electromagnetic Transient (EMT) simulation approach is required for grid operators [1] to study the stability of grids with massive integration of renewable energy sources. This approach delivers highly accurate computations with detailed models of controls and power electronics circuits. The challenge is in terms of numerical performance of EMT computations for large-scale grids with numerous inverter-based resources. Sparse-matrix based solvers can be used in EMT-type software [2] for efficient solution of large systems of equations based on the companion circuit modeling approach. Direct sparse LU decomposition [3] is commonly used to solve such systems. Previous works have integrated the KLU solver [4], [5] into EMT-type simulators in off-line [6] and real-time [7] modes. Efficient sparse solver techniques (fill-in reduction by reordering, parallelization, partial pivoting) can significantly speed up EMT simulations. An important bottleneck is the requirement for repetitive refactorization steps to account for switching devices and nonlinear models.

In KLU, the LU factors are computed by the left-looking Gilbert-Peierls (G-P) factorization algorithm [8] with partial pivoting. This paper focuses on the LU factors re-computations (refactorization) problem. Originally in KLU, a refactorization is proposed using a G-P algorithm version without pivoting. Previous work [6] has enhanced it by offering the possibility to switch to full factorization only when the pivot is no longer valid through a pivot validity test. Partial refactorization aims to re-compute LU factors in a faster manner considering only the matrix elements which have changed at each time-point. It avoids performing LU refactorization through all columns in the left-looking algorithm. The partial refactorization technique applied in [6] exploits the left-looking column-based procedure of the factorization algorithm by restarting it from the minimal index of columns which have changed in the matrix. This paper enhances this latter method by exploring the path-based refactorization approach. For each changed value in the original matrix, it computes a factorization path. This path is a minimum sequence of columns which need to be refactorized to update LU factors. The reunion of all factorization paths proposes a minimal column subset which must be proceeded by the left-looking refactorization algorithm. This approach has been originally proposed in [9] to accelerate the solution phase (backward and forward substitutions) when the right member is sparse. Then, it has been applied in [10] to speed up LU refactorization without pivoting using the Crout factorization algorithm. Recent research has applied it to parallelize refactorization [11] or perform partial refactorization in real-time EMT simulation [12] for symmetric LU factors.

For the first time, a generic formulation of the path-based refactorization technique is proposed, which can be applied to unsymmetric LU factors. This paper also uses Block Triangular Factorization (BTF) ordering method [13] which has been previously employed in [6] as a decoupling technique for parallelization. This paper speeds up partial refactorization by considering only the changed matrices in the left-looking algorithm. All implementations have been done in the MKLU solver, a modified version of KLU which includes the previous

Received 13 September 2024; revised 3 April 2025; accepted 17 May 2025. Date of publication 30 May 2025; date of current version 25 July 2025. Paper no. TPWRD-01434-2024. (Corresponding author: Boris Bruned.)
Boris Bruned and Sébastien Dennetière are with Campus Transfo, RTE, 69330 Jonage, France (e-mail: boris.bruned@rte-France.com; sebastien.dennetiere@rte-France.com).
Anas Abusalah is with PGSTech, Montréal, QC H3C3A7, Canada (e-mail: anas.abusalah@emtp.com).
Jean Mahseredjian is with Polytechnique Montreal, Montréal, QC H3C3A7, Canada (e-mail: jean.mahseredjian@polymtl.ca).
Omar Saad is with Hydro-Québec, Montréal, QC H3C3A7, Canada (e-mail: omar.saad@hydro-quebec.com).