## Performance of the recursive methods applied to compute the transient responses on grounding systems☆

J.S.L. Colqui$^{a,*}$, A.R.J. de Araújo$^{b}$, Claudiner M. de Seixas$^{c}$, S. Kurokawa$^{a}$, J. Pissolato Filho$^{b}$

$^{a}$ São Paulo State University-UNESP, Ilha Solteira, Brazil
$^{b}$ University of Campinas-UNICAMP, Campinas, Brazil
$^{c}$ Federal Institute of São Paulo-IFSP, Votuporanga, Brazil

**Keywords:** Electromagnetic transients, Ground potential rise, Grounding systems, Recursive methods

**Abstract:** Ground Potential Rise (GPR) is an important factor for a grounding system that must be properly designed to protect people against any dangerous induced voltages and to avoid damages in equipment. In this context, several approaches to assess GPR are available in the literature which can be developed either directly in time domain or frequency-to-time transforms. The purpose of this paper is to investigate the performance of two time-domain recursive methods to compute the transient GPR in grounding systems generated by different lightning currents. First, the grounding impedances are calculated by a full-wave electromagnetic software FEKO with numerical Method of Moments from 100 Hz to 5 MHz. The GPRs are assessed by a recursive convolution method (M1) and by a recursive trapezoidal integration method (M2). Both methods employ the Vector Fitting technique on each impedance curve adjusted into a poles-residues form. Then, simulation results from the recursive methods are compared with those obtained with frequency-to-time method using the Numerical Laplace Transform (NLT) and with the equivalent circuit incorporated in the ATP-software. Results show a good agreement between the responses from recursive methods in comparison with those from NLT and ATP-software. As advantages, the recursive methods are an alternative tool when no analytical expressions for lightning currents are known or only measured data is provided. Additionally, the circuit implementation in Electromagnetic Transient (EMT)-type software tools is not needed to compute the transient GPRs in time domain. This work is an extension of a 2019-SIPDA conference paper [1].

☆ This study was financed by the Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior - Brasil (CAPES) - Finance Code 001, by the Brazilian National Council for Scientific and Technological Development (CNPq) and by the São Paulo Research Foundation (FAPESP grant: 2019/01396-1)
* Corresponding author. E-mail addresses: jaimis.leon@unesp.br (J.S.L. Colqui), ajusto@dsce.fee.unicamp.br (A.R.J. de Araújo), claudiner@ifsp.edu.br (C.M. de Seixas), kurokawa@dee.feis.unesp.br (S. Kurokawa), pisso@unicamp.br (J. Pissolato Filho).

## 1. Introduction

Grounding systems in power systems have many functions during transient conditions, such as to dissipate fault currents into ground and minimize the step and touch voltages to protect humans [2]. In this context, the generated ground potential rise (GPR) by lightning current in a grounding system must be in accordance with electrical safe limits as predicted in [3]. The GPR can be obtained directly in the time domain using models such as with the Finite Difference Time Domain (FDTD) method or can be calculated by the inverse Laplace or Fourier transforms of the product between the frequency-dependent grounding impedance by the injected frequency-domain lightning current. In this computation, the grounding system impedance must be accurately computed for a wide frequency content and the injected lightning current must be analytically integrated for the numerical Inverse Laplace or Fourier Transform.

To compute accurately grounding system impedance, one must consider the frequency content varying from DC up to a few tens MHz which comprises the spectrum of lightning currents injected in the grounding system [4]. The grounding system impedance has been calculated by several approaches, such as: lumped approach, transmission line models, full-wave electromagnetic (EM) approaches combined numerical methods and hybrid methods [5]. These last two methods are based on electromagnetic field theory, which they solve the Maxwell’s equations with boundary conditions, which the most used are: Method of Moments (MoM) [6]; FDTD [7,8]; Finite Element Method (FEM) [9]. These EM approaches are assumed to be the most rigorous and accurate tools over a wide frequency range, however, a high computational cost (memory storage) and time are required to carried out these simulations [2,9].

On the other hand, a lightning current function in the frequency domain is also required in the frequency-to-time methods by means of the Laplace or Fourier Transform. However, few time-domain expressions for lightning currents are known in the literature which can be analytically integrated via Laplace or Fourier Transform [10–12].

**Fig. 1.** (a) Grounding electrode divided into n-segments for the numerical MoM application; (b) Generic meshed horizontal electrode designed in FEKO® for the simulations.