# Potential risk of failures in switching EHV shunt reactors in a one-and-a-half breaker scheme
B. Khodabakhchian^a^, J. Mahseredjian^b,∗^, M.-R. Sehati^c^, M. Mir-Hosseini^c^
^a^ TransÉnergie Technologies, Montréal, Canada
^b^ École Polytechnique de Montréal, Montréal, Canada
^c^ Yazd Regional Electric Power Co., Yazd, Iran

Available online 31 January 2006

**Abstract**
This paper reports the case of some EHV circuit-breaker repetitive failures during the opening of a 100 MVAR shunt reactor in a 400 kV substation in central part of Iran. By taking advantage of the simulation capabilities of EMTP-RV, the restructured version of the DCG-EMTP and its new GUI, major understanding of arc-circuit interaction phenomena was achieved. Simulation results show without any doubt that opposite-polarity high frequency arc-instability-dependant oscillations caused mainly by current transformers on each side of the breaker were responsible for its thermal failures and thus the non-interruption of the low 50 Hz reactor current by the 50 kA circuit-breaker.
This paper represents a major contribution to the field of shunt reactor circuit-breaker applications. It is expected that transient simulations with EMTP-RV incorporating circuit parameters frequency-dependency and dynamic arc modeling, will contribute, in some cases, to a much safer shunt reactor installation.

**Keywords:** Shunt reactor; Arc instability; Circuit-breaker thermal failure; Arc modeling; EMTP

## 1. Introduction
Switchable shunt reactors located on both line terminals and substation bus-bars are commonly used on long radial EHV transmission networks for the purpose of voltage control during daily/seasonal load variations. Extensive research and field tests have been performed by large utilities since the late 1960s in order to understand and thus control the severe and unique duties that are imposed on the breaker or on the load-break switches performing these tasks. Once in a while, however, unexplained failures do occur in different parts of the world. At least two of such failures have occurred in a one-and-a-half breaker substation in Iran on 400 kV SF6 circuit-breakers during the last 15 years. Since these breakers were supplied from two different manufacturers, design particularities and mechanical misfortunes were excluded as the reason behind these violent explosions. Consequently, electrical causes due to the interaction of the arc-circuit were investigated as a possible way to explain the repetitive nature of these failures.

The main objective of this paper is to report the major findings related to the in-depth investigations, which successfully resulted in the full understanding of the involved phenomena. Although the authors do not claim that the extremely complex arc-circuit interaction phenomenon may precisely be predicted yet by advanced simulation software, it is worthy to mention the major role that the usage of a new EMTP version [1] and its new powerful GUI [2] (called EMTP-RV and EMTPWorks, respectively) have played in solving these complex problems.

## 2. Circuit-breaker failure history in Yazd-1
Yazd-1 is a major 400 kV substation in central part of Iran supplying the city of Yazd with two 200 MVA 400/63 kV transformers. Designed with a conventional one-and-a-half breaker substation scheme, it was commissioned in 1987 as a turnkey project supplied by a European sublicense manufacturer. Fig. 1 is created in EMTPWorks and depicts the details of this substation and the distances separating different equipments.

The 100 MX shunt reactor is a three-phase five-leg-core type design protected with conventional SiC arrester. The original 400 kV circuit-breakers were of a SF6 double-blast design from manufacturer A with two chambers in series each equipped with a 500 pF grading capacitor. Around 1992, the two shunt reactor circuit-breakers were replaced by a more conventional SF6 type from manufacturer B with 1600 pF grading capacitors per chamber as a possible solution to the first couple of BR 9832 failures. The original current transformers (CT) had a rating of 150 VA with five cores on the top, three of which were used for protective purposes. Five out of six CT’s of BR 9832 were also replaced by five cores 500 VA type from a different manufacturer for the same reason. Phase (c) at the right-hand side of BR 9832 has the only old 150 VA CT.

Since 1987, circuit-breaker BR 9832, marked by a cross (X) in Fig. 1, has failed five times during the reactor opening on a single-phase. Three of such failures have occurred on phase (b) in static open position (type I) and due to operator mistakes by not opening the corresponding disconnects when BR 9432 was doing the final reactor interruption. The remaining two failures happened dynamically (type II) on phase (b) from manufacturer A and phase (a) from manufacturer B during the very few times where BR 9832 was putting the reactor definitively out of service with BR 9432 in open position. Since shunt reactor interruption involves arc instability and the creation of relatively high $di/dt$’s near current-zeros, circuit-breaker thermal failure, although never reported before for similar cases, was recognized as a lead jus