# Multi-FPGA digital hardware design for detailed large-scale real-time electromagnetic transient simulation of power systems
Yuan Chen$^1$, Venkata Dinavahi$^2$
$^1$ RTDS Technologies Inc., 100-150 Innovation Drive, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada R3T 2E1
$^2$ Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada T6G 2V4
E-mail: dinavahi@ece.ualberta.ca

**Abstract:** Large-scale electromagnetic transient simulation of power systems in real-time using detailed modelling is computationally very demanding. This study introduces a multi-ﬁeld programmable gate array (FPGA) hardware design for this purpose. A functional decomposition method is proposed to map FPGA hardware resources to system modelling. This systematic method lends itself to fully pipelined and parallel hardware emulation of individual component models and numerical solvers, while preserving original system characteristics without the need for extraneous components to partition the system. Proof-of-concept is provided in terms of a 3-FPGA and 10-FPGA real-time hardware emulation of a three-phase 42-bus and 420-bus power systems using detailed modelling of various system components and iterative non-linear solution on a 100 MHz FPGA clock. Real-time results are compared with ofﬂine simulation results, and conclusions are derived on the performance and scalability of this multi-FPGA hardware design.

## 1 Introduction
In the wake of increased load growth, interconnectivity and stressful operating conditions, many utilities worldwide are employing large-scale real-time electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulators for planning, operation and control of the grid with adequate security and reliability [1–5]. Real-time EMT simulators are widely employed for such applications as testing of advanced protective schemes for lines and generators, testing closed-loop control systems either for conventional power systems or for power electronic-based applications such as high voltage direct current (HVDC), ﬂexible AC transmission systems (FACTs) and distributed generation, and for the training of system operators under realistic scenarios [6–12]. Examples of commercial large-scale real-time EMT simulators include RTDS® [1, 2], ARENE® [13], HYPERSIM® [14], NETOMAC® [15] and RT-LAB® [16]. At their core, these simulators employ sequential processors for model calculation such as digital signal processors (DSPs) or PowerPC® processors in RTDS® and general purpose multi-core x86 central processing units (CPUs) in RT-LAB®. All these simulators are highly extensible by adding additional racks or cluster nodes to existing simulator infrastructure.

In large-scale real-time EMT simulators accuracy and computational efﬁciency are conﬂicting requirements that have ramiﬁcations in terms of simulator hardware and cost. A realistic reproduction of high-frequency transients requires detailed modelling of power system components and a small simulation time-step. Thus, large system size entails excessive computational burden. To lower computational burden using simpliﬁed modelling or a large time-step would lower ﬁdelity of the simulation. For transient simulation the most pervasive computationally demanding power system components are transmission lines, electrical machines and non-linear elements on account of their frequency dependency, higher model order and iterative algorithmic nature; whereas power electronic apparatus also constitute a higher computational burden (because of higher number of switches) and require smaller time-steps (because of high switching frequency and the need for accounting the switching signals accurately), they tend to be more localised and not as ubiquitous as the other three types of components. Inevitably, to meet real-time constraints and to accommodate large system sizes, a compromise is needed in component model complexity to curtail simulator cost at the expense of accuracy. In such cases simpliﬁed modelling of system components is tolerated. Simpliﬁed models [17] include Π or travelling wave representation for lines and cables, Thévénin equivalent representation for machines and switched piece-wise linear approximation for non-linear elements.

Parallel processing is extensively used in existing real-time simulators to execute large-scale system models cooperatively on multiple sequential processors. It relies on the fundamental premise that a power system can be decomposed into smaller subsystems because of the natural travel time delay of the transmission line or cable which provides the decoupling necessary for the subsystem calculations to occur without timing conﬂict [1, 2, 13–20]; thus one or more subsystems can be assigned to multiple sequential processors which share the computational workload, subject to the condition that the simulation time-step is less than the travel time on the link lines. However, this method has some limitations:

1. If there is no real transmission line or cable connecting any two subsystems or if two neighbouring subsystems are tightly coupled, ﬁctitious lines or cables with travel time are necessary to partition the network. Such artiﬁcial lines introduce errors in the frequency response of the simulated transient; although the errors can be compensated or minimised, the location and the length of the link lines still need to be carefully chosen to maintain accuracy.
2. After executing their respective calculation the sequential processors need to exchange subsystem data with each other at the cost of extra communication latency within the time-step, which limits the achievable bandwidth of the real-time simulator.
3. The partitioning scheme to divide the original system into smaller subsystems is arbitrary at best, usually based on the experience and the speciﬁc requirements of the user, albeit some simulators such as HYPERSIM have an autom the ofﬂine EMTP software. The performance and scalability analysis for the proposed multi-FPGA hardware design is also given in Section 3. Section 4 presents the conclusions.

## 2 Functional components for hardware emulation of power systems
### 2.1 Functional decomposition method
This method of power system decomposition relies on systematically clustering the model calculation of system components on individual hardware based on the component functionality. As seen in Fig. 1, a generic power system is composed of lines, generators, non-linear elements, loads, buses, circuit breakers etc. In the hardware emulation, the model calculations of each type of system components can be processed in their own processing hardware (PH) simultaneously. For example, all transmission lines are simulated in the speciﬁed PH2 hardware module, concurrently with the machines models