# Re-examination of Synchronous Machine Modeling Techniques for Electromagnetic Transient Simulations
**Liwei Wang**, Student Member, IEEE, **Juri Jatskevich**, Member, IEEE, and **Hermann W. Dommel**, Life Fellow, IEEE

**Abstract**—This paper re-examines the three synchronous machine modeling techniques used for electromagnetic transient simulations, namely, the $dq0$ model, phase-domain model, and voltage-behind-reactance model. Contrary to the claims made in several recent publications, these models are all equivalent in the continuous-time domain, as their corresponding differential equations can be algebraically derived from each other. Computer studies of a single-machine infinite-bus system demonstrate that all of these models can be used for unsymmetrical operation of power systems. The conversion of machine parameters is also discussed and is shown to have some impact on simulation accuracy, which is acceptable for most cases. When the models are discretized and interfaced with an EMTP-type network solution, the voltage-behind-reactance model is shown to be the most accurate due to its advanced structure.

**Index Terms**—Electromagnetic Transient Programs (EMTP), phase-domain model, synchronous machine, unbalanced fault, voltage-behind-reactance model.

## I. INTRODUCTION
MODELING of synchronous machines has been an active research subject for quite a long time. Depending on the objective of studies and the required level of fidelity, the modeling approaches may be roughly divided into three categories: finite element (or difference) method [1]; equivalent magnetic circuit approach [2], [3]; and coupled electric circuit approach. This paper mainly considers the last approach, which leads to a relatively small number of equations and has been very often utilized for predicting the dynamic responses of electrical machines in power system operations. To further simplify the coupled electric circuit approach, the machine physical variables are often transformed into quadrature and direct magnetic rotor axes [4]–[7]. This approach is also known as the $dq0$ modeling of rotating machines, which is widely used in Electromagnetic Transient Programs (EMTP) [8] for power system transient simulations and analysis. Currently, there are many EMTP-type programs that use general purpose synchronous machine models based on the $dq0$ transformation. These models include the Type-50 machine model in MicroTran (MT) [9], the Type-59 machine model in EPRI/DCG EMTP [10] and ATP [11], and the synchronous machine model in PSCAD/EMTDC [12]. The validity of these models for both balanced and unbalanced power system operations has been confirmed by academic and industrial applications [13], [14].

The so-called phase-domain (PD) models, as the original form of the coupled electric circuit machine models, were proposed in [15] and [16] for the nodal analysis approach. These models achieved simultaneous solution of the machine electrical variables and the network equations, and they improve numerical accuracy and stability [17], [18]. However, the time variant self and mutual inductances of the PD model stator and rotor circuits complicate the modeling and increase the computational cost.

To integrate the advantages of the PD model with the benefit of the $dq0$ transformation, the voltage-behind-reactance (VBR) machine model was introduced in [19] for the state variable approach and extended for the EMTP-type solution in [20]. In the VBR model structure, the stator circuit is represented in $abc$ phase coordinates while the rotor equations are expressed in $dq$ rotor reference frame. Similar to the PD model, simultaneous solution of the network and machine electrical variables is achieved, and numerical accuracy and simulation efficiency are further improved upon.

Although all of the above-mentioned models rely on the same set of assumptions [21]–[23], some researchers have questioned the applicability of the $dq0$ model to unbalanced conditions. In [24]–[26], the authors claim that the $dq0$ machine model “assumes perfectly balanced operation conditions in machine” and “cannot accurately describe the transient and steady-state unbalanced operation of the synchronous machine.” The authors of [27] and [28] made similar conclusions by comparing the simulation results of the $dq0$ and PD models under unbalanced operation. These results seem to contradict the existing machine modeling theories and undermine the long-established validity of the machine model for power system transient simulations.

In this paper, computer studies are conducted using the same synchronous machine as in [24]–[26] to demonstrate that the $dq0$ machine model, PD model, and VBR model all give identical simulation results for unbalanced operation, provided that the simulation time-step $\Delta t$ is sufficiently small. This result is expected as all of these models can be derived from each other and are therefore equivalent in the continuous time domain. The claims made in [24]–[28] that the machine model cannot represent unbalanced operations are unfounded. The difference in

Manuscript received August 29, 2006; revised December 8, 2006. This work was supported in part by the Natural Science and Engineering Research Council (NSERC) of Canada under the Discovery Grant and in part by the Power Engineering Grant-In-Aid from BC Hydro and Powertech Labs, Inc. Paper no. TPWRS-00563-2006.

The authors are with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z4, Canada (e-mail: liweiw@ece.ubc.ca; jurij@ece.ubc.ca; hermannd@ece.ubc.ca).

Color versions of one or more of the figures in this paper are available online at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.

Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TPWRS.2007.901308