# Real-Time Transient Simulation Based on a Robust Two-Layer Network Equivalent
**Xin Nie**, Student Member, IEEE, **Yuan Chen**, Student Member, IEEE, and **Venkata Dinavahi**, Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—Real-time digital simulation of large power systems requires not only significant computational power but also simpler and accurate models. This paper proposes a new approach for transient simulation of power systems using a robust two-layer network equivalent model and an advanced PC-Cluster based parallel real-time simulator. Using a combination of well established fitting and optimization methods, the generated low-order model is of high accuracy compared to its full model over a wide frequency bandwidth. The merits of this method are its robustness in terms of stability and positive-realness, its accuracy at not only transient frequencies but also at dc and power frequency, and its optimal order determination feature. To validate the new method, a realistic large-scale power system—the Alberta Interconnected Electric System—is simulated in real-time. The real-time electromagnetic transient program is implemented in C++ language using object-oriented programming techniques on the PC-Cluster. A time-step of 20 s has been used for the real-time simulation. The captured oscilloscope results demonstrate excellent accuracy and efficiency of the proposed model in comparison to a full-scale off-line simulation of the original system in the ATP version of EMTP.

**Index Terms**—Electromagnetic analysis, frequency domain analysis, object oriented programming, power system transients, real-time systems, transmission lines.

*Manuscript received October 9, 2006; revised August 8, 2007. This work was supported by the Natural Science and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC). Paper no. TPWRS-00681-2006.*
*X. Nie is with the SNC-Lavalin T & D, Calgary, AB T2G 4Y5, Canada (e-mail: xnie@ece.ualberta.ca).*
*Y. Chen and V. Dinavahi are with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB T6G 2V4, Canada (e-mail: yuanchen@ece.ualberta.ca; dinavahi@ece.ualberta.ca).*
*Color versions of one or more of the figures in this paper are available online at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.*
*Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TPWRS.2007.907963*

## I. INTRODUCTION
REAL-TIME simulation plays an important role in the design and development of power systems for the closed-loop testing of protective relays and digital controllers. Although it is desirable to represent the whole power system in great detail, it is not always practical to do so due to excessive computational burden. In electromagnetic transient studies [1], due to system complexities, it is a common practice to divide the system into a Study Zone, a restricted part of the system where the transient phenomena occur and whose components must be fully characterized including any nonlinear and time-variant elements, and an External System which encompasses the rest of the system (Fig. 1). Since high frequency electromagnetic waves propagate short electrical distances because of high attenuation, therefore, the external system is represented by a linear equivalent network, i.e., a Frequency-Dependent Network Equivalent (FDNE) [2], [3]. The latest development in constructing FDNE is the vector fitting technique [4], [5].

For real-time transient simulation of large power systems, however, the computational bottleneck still remains due to the efficiency concern in convolutions and the high order of the fitted FDNE model of external systems. The Two-Layer Network Equivalent (TLNE) (Fig. 1), first proposed in [6], is another development in overcoming this obstacle for real-time digital simulation. In the TLNE, the external system is further partitioned into a Surface Layer represented by reduced-order frequency-dependent transmission line models and a Deep Region represented as a low-order FDNE. The impact of Surface Layer and Deep Region on the external system input admittance varies with frequency. At low frequencies, both the Surface Layer and Deep Region contribute to the input admittance. When the frequency increases, however, the contribution of the Deep Region diminishes drastically due to high attenuation. Therefore, the FDNE model for the Deep Region is able to be obtained in low order.

Existing methods in [6] for obtaining TLNE rely on low-order vector fitting for both Surface Layer and Deep Region parameters, and Sequential Quadratic Programming (SQP) to ensure passivity of the model. Nonetheless, the following concerns were revealed in our experience [7], [8] with this method:
1) With low-order vector fitting in obtaining the Deep Region, it is difficult to control deviations with respect to the original Deep Region, which SQP may not be able to compensate.
2) Frequency response at dc is not specifically accentuated although it affects the dc offset in the transient. Optimization of the Surface Layer can help in increasing accuracy of response in the low frequency range with little cost of computational time.
3) SQP is prone to divergence. If better first approximations of external system input admittance, which are both stable and passive, can be found, then SQP can be replaced by constrained nonlinear least-square optimization, which gives improved convergence.
4) In multi-port external systems with complex frequency response, the passivity constraint is very strong, so the are obtained from low-order vector fitting. Then the input admittance of external system is obtained by combining and

**Fig. 1.** Two-Layer Network Equivalent for the external system.

**Fig. 2.** Admittance matrix for the TLNE external system.