# Real-time simulation for detailed wind turbine model based on heterogeneous computing
Bing Li, Haoran Zhao ∗, Yibao Jiang, Linghan Meng
School of Electrical Engineering, Shandong University, Jinan 250061, China

∗ Corresponding author.
E-mail addresses: bingli@mail.sdu.edu.cn (B. Li), hzhao@sdu.edu.cn (H. Zhao), yjiang@sdu.edu.cn (Y. Jiang), linghanmeng@mail.sdu.edu.cn (L. Meng).

## Abstract
The deployment of sophisticated and costly large-capacity wind turbines continues to rise. It is urgent for precise real-time simulation to accurately identify and address potential problems. However, the existing solutions, which joint various simulation platforms, suffer from the disadvantages of complex architecture and high cost. This paper proposes a CPU-FPGA heterogeneous computing-based real-time simulation platform for detailed wind turbine model (DWTM). DWTM encompasses the turbine model (covering the inflow wind, aerodynamic, and mechanical dynamic), the electrical model (covering the electromagnetic transient), and the control system. The real-time operating system is introduced to guarantee the real-time performance of the turbine model and control system in the CPU. FPGA is used to perform real-time electrical model calculation. Furthermore, a general FPGA solver for electromagnetic transients is designed. It can accommodate various circuit topologies without the need for recompiling the FPGA code. Finally, the real-time simulation performance and accuracy are verified. The coupled dynamics between the turbine and electrical models are investigated under multiple power grid and wind conditions.

## Keywords
Wind turbine, Real-time simulation, CPU-FPGA, Coupling dynamics

## 1. Introduction
With the increasing global energy demand and worsening environmental issues, the installed capacity of wind power continues to grow worldwide [1]. Wind power has promising development prospects and significant strategic implications. The large-capacity wind turbine (e.g., H260-18MW from China) is extensively adopted in newly developed wind farms. It is more expensive and complex. Therefore, more accurate simulation must be performed to identify and analyze potential issues.

Existing simplified wind turbine models usually ignore some coupled dynamics (e.g., electrical faults and tower vibration) to improve simulation efficiency [2,3]. It no longer satisfies the accurate analysis requirements of the modern large-capacity wind turbine. Therefore, it is necessary to adopt the detailed wind turbine model (DWTM). The DWTM encompasses the millisecond-level turbine model (including the inflow wind model, aerodynamic model, and mechanical dynamic model) [4] and the microsecond-level electrical model (i.e., electromagnetic transient model). It covers various system elements, including blades, hub, nacelle, tower, drive train, generator, converter, transformers, etc. The DWTM has the ability to shed light on the mechanical-electromagnetic coupling dynamics. This feature plays a crucial role in accurately assessing performance and verifying controllers for the large-capacity wind turbine.

The real-time simulation platform of the DWTM is the basis for performing Hardware-In-the-Loop (HIL) simulation, which can improve the simulation reliability greatly [5]. In addition, it is an essential step for a comprehensive controller test. Consequently, it is urgent to develop real-time simulation platform for DWTM. However, the DWTM has complex characteristics: various types of component models, high-order system dynamics, and multi-timescale coupling dynamics [6]. The real-time simulation of DWTM faces significant challenges due to its complex characteristics.

The existing solutions still have some prominent shortcomings in the real-time simulation of DWTM. Real-time simulators such as RTDS and RT-Lab offer real-time simulation capabilities for electromagnetic transients [7]. However, lacking support for inflow wind, aerodynamic, and mechanical dynamic models hinders its direct application in DWTM real-time simulation scenario. Ref. [8] proposed a platform joined Bladed and RTDS to perform DWTM real-time simulation. Bladed is used to perform real-time simulation of the turbine model. Meanwhile, the real-time simulation of the electrical model is implemented by RTDS. The two platforms interact data through PLC (Programming Logic Controller). The hardware structure of this solution is complex, resulting in cumbersome to use. Meanwhile, the licensing fees of Bladed and RTDS are expensive, which makes it unfeasible for some laboratories to implement this solution. Building upon this work, Ref. [9] replaces Bladed with OpenFAST [10]. The simulation platform joined OpenFAST and RTDS is implemented. This solution further avoids the licensing fee of Bladed software. But it does not bypass the obstacles brought about by the high cost of