# Real-Time FPGA-RTDS Co-Simulator for Power Systems
Conghuan Yang, Ying Xue, Member, IEEE, Xiao-Ping Zhang, Senior Member, IEEE, Yi Zhang, Senior Member, IEEE, and Yuan Chen

**Abstract**—This paper proposes a co-simulation platform using Field-Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) and Real-Time Digital Simulator (RTDS) for the simulation of large power systems. It combines the advantages of high computational power from FPGA and better modelling flexibility from RTDS together. The FPGA therefore acts as an efficient and economical extension to RTDS especially when simulating large AC systems. One of the significant advantages of the proposed co-simulator is that it avoids the potential interface error existing in the conventional approach of interfacing Transient Stability (TS) program with Electromagnetic Transient (EMT) programs. Two key aspects of the proposed co-simulator are discussed: 1) the interface design between FPGA and RTDS and 2) the hardware implementation and expandability of the platform. Two case studies are presented to verify the simulation accuracy and capability of the proposed co-simulator. The first case simulates a two-area four-machine power system with one area simulated in FPGA and the other area in RTDS. Comparisons are made with the case where the complete system is simulated in RTDS. The second case simulates a system of 141 buses in FPGA to demonstrate the simulator’s capability in simulating large power systems.

**Index Terms** — Electromagnetic transients, Field-Programmable Gate Array (FPGA), Real-Time Digital Simulator (RTDS), power system simulation.

## I. INTRODUCTION

Modern electrical power systems are undergoing dramatic changes such as:
- Increasing amount of renewable energy integration;
- Increasing level of interconnections between regional/national electrical power systems [1];
- Increasing applications of power electronic devices in existing AC networks [2].

All these changes result in an increase in size and complexity of power systems. In particular the application of power electronic devices introduces a range of new risks which are different in nature to those in traditional AC power systems. For example they could affect the operation of protection relays [3], cause harmonic problems [4] or control interactions [5], and lead to potential overvoltage/overcurrent problems. Real-Time Simulation (RTS) using Electromagnetic Transient (EMT) type of component models is essential and has been widely used to study these problems [6, 7].

One of the main difficulties for RTS is that significant computational resources are required for the solution of detailed EMT models thereby limiting the size of AC system that can be accurately simulated [6]. One of the conventional methods in simulating larger system is to use network equivalents, which neglects internal dynamics of the equivalent part of the system. To increase the size of system that can be simulated while maintaining simulation accuracy, hybrid simulation combining EMT and Transient Stability (TS) programs was proposed [8, 9]. This method partitions the whole system into two or more subsystems. The area/areas with power electronic devices is/are simulated accurately using EMT programs. The rest of the network is simulated using TS programs to save computational resources. The accuracy and efficiency of hybrid simulation critically depend on the interface technique [8]. Therefore most of the previous works are focusing on the design of interface between TS and EMT subsystems.

Conventionally the fundamental frequency equivalent of the TS subsystem is adopted [10] and both positive-sequence and three-sequence equivalent models are used [11-13]. The drawback of using positive-sequence network is that it will give inaccurate results for unbalanced conditions [11]. To mitigate the problem, significant extension of the interface bus was proposed to maintain the assumption of three-phase balance, but simulation efficiency of EMT part is significantly reduced [13]. For three-sequence equivalent model, the representation may not be accurate when the transients at interface buses are significant [10]. The Frequency-Dependent Network Equivalent (FDNE) was recently proposed in [10] to decrease the interface error. A number of approaches to obtain the FDNE are proposed [14, 15], and different representations of FDNE are adopted [16]. The main disadvantages of these methods are the increased comp