# Reduced-order and simultaneous solution of power and control system equations in EMT simulations^✰,✰✰

**Jiaming Wang**<sup>a</sup>, **Xiaopeng Fu**<sup>a,*</sup>, **Peng Li**<sup>a</sup>, **Jean Mahseredjian**<sup>b</sup>

<sup>a</sup> State Key Laboratory of Smart Power Distribution Equipment and System, Tianjin University, Tianjin 300072, China
<sup>b</sup> Department of Electrical Engineering, Polytechnique Montréal, Montréal, Québec H3T 1J4, Canada

**Keywords:** Electromagnetic transient simulation, Exponential integrators, Simultaneous solution, Sylvester equation

**Abstract:** The time-step delay between the power and control system solutions in EMT simulation may cause inaccurate results or even numerical instability in certain scenarios. A simultaneous solution is preferred theoretically, but computationally expensive and not adopted. By utilizing the triangular block structure of the state-space matrices in converter simulations, this paper achieves reduced-order implementation of simultaneous solution based on exponential integrators. The core mathematical idea is to convert the difficult matrix exponential solution problem of the off-diagonal block into a linear matrix solution process by introducing a Sylvester equation and its linear transformation, when the power and control systems are solved simultaneously with a unified state-space matrix. To address the nonexistence of solution issue of the Sylvester equation due to structure-induced repetitive eigenvalues, the paper proposes a matrix sub-block eigenvalue-shifting technique, that enables a more robust and error-free solution through the excellent properties of matrix exponential. The proposed method effectively decouples the matrix exponential solution during the simultaneous solution. Additionally, synchronized interpolation on the state variables of the power and control systems is now possible with a unified time-stepping process, improving accuracy for converter simulations. Through illustrative example and analysis, the accuracy and efficacy of the proposed method are verified.

^✰ This work was supported by National Key R&D Program of China under Grant 2023YFC3807000, and National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant 52377118.
^✰✰ Paper submitted to the International Conference on Power Systems Transients (IPST2025) in Guadalajara, Mexico, June 8–12, 2025.
* Corresponding author. E-mail addresses: fuxiaopeng@tju.edu.cn (X. Fu), jeanm@polymtl.ca (J. Mahseredjian).

## 1. Introduction
Accurate and efficient solution of control system equations is important for EMT simulations, considering the increasingly complex power system dynamics deeply affected by its various new components and their sophisticated control systems. Control systems usually comprise numerous types of nonlinear blocks and feedback loops, with their matrix representation often exhibiting a sparse and asymmetric structure. This is significantly different from the symmetric matrix form of power system models. As a result, traditional solution methods for control systems introduce artificial delays, which are further categorized into internal and external delays [1]. The internal delays are introduced in decoupling nonlinear feedback loops, e.g. algebraic loops. Eliminating the internal delays requires solving the control system equations simultaneously by iterative methods. This issue has been extensively studied in previous research. For example, the time-step delays in solving the control system equations are eliminated by using the Jacobian matrix-based formulation in [2], and a comparison is made between the full iterative Newton method and its noniterative variant. On this basis, the reduced rank Jacobin matrix in a fully iterative Newton method is realized by combining the specific influence range of the feedback loops in the control system equations [3,4].

The external delays exist mainly due to the fact that the power and control system equations are solved separately. The information is transferred between the two sets of equations through an interface. The power system may transmit voltage and current values to the control system, while the control system typically transmits control values of the controlled sources and switching signals to the power system. It is the scheme of this information interface that makes it necessary to wait for one of them until the required information has been successfully transmitted. At the same time, in order to simplify the calculation process and increase the efficiency of the simulation, there is no iteration scheme in the interface process, which results in a one-time-step delay between the solution of the power and control system. Although this delay may not be a significant source of errors in most well-behaved cases with small time-steps, the presence of an external delay may cause inaccurate results or serious numerical stability problems in certain scenarios [5]. Reduced time steps must be used in such occasions. Compared to the treatment of internal delays, there are fewer studies addressing the challenges posed by external delays.

To eliminate the external delays or mitigate the numerical stability method, the interpolation of the internal states of the control system becomes easier during the switch positioning process. In order to verify the feasibility of the proposed method, the simulation accuracy and stability tests are carried out for several different examples.

## 2. Simultaneous solution
For the switching-controlled systems without controlled sources, the control system directly obtains the required input f