# RMS+: Augmenting the Traditional Circuit Model to Capture PLL Instability
Miguel Carreño, Oriol Velasco-Falguera, Josep Arévalo-Soler, and Oriol Gomis-Bellmunt, Fellow, IEEE

*Received 12 February 2025; revised 11 June 2025 and 23 September 2025; accepted 18 December 2025. Date of publication 22 December 2025; date of current version 26 January 2026. The work of Oriol Gomis-Bellmunt was supported by ICREA Academia Program. This work was supported by FEDER/Ministerio de Ciencia, Innovación y Universidades - Agencia Estatal de Investigación, under Project PID2021-124292OB-I00. Paper no. TPWRD-00197-2025. (Corresponding author: Miguel Carreño.)*

*The authors are with Centre d’Innovacio Tecnologica en Convertidors Estatics I Accionaments - UPC, 08034 Barcelona, Spain (e-mail: miguel.carreno@upc.edu; oriol.velasco.falguera@upc.edu; josep.arevalo@upc.edu; oriol.gomis@upc.edu).*

*Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TPWRD.2025.3646818*

**Abstract**—Electrical circuits are modelled with a constant admittance matrix for steady-state studies and for dynamic studies involving synchronous machines. It is widely considered that this model, called RMS model, is also suitable for capturing low-frequency oscillations in networks with inverters; however, this idea has been challenged by recent research of the Phase-Locked Loop. The EMT model, in contrast, accounts for the dynamics of all circuit components, but its high computational cost limits its application in the analysis of bulk power systems. This paper introduces RMS+, a new circuit model constructed from the raw data of the system, that captures the PLL interactions with the network while reducing the number of state variables. The theoretical framework includes the theory of dynamical systems, particularly, of slow-fast systems. The underlying assumption is that there must be a time-scale separation between the electromagnetic transients, and the PLL dynamics. In this sense, this paper discusses the advantage of the RMS+ model for the analysis of synchronization stability of networks with Grid-following Voltage Source Converters. The model is implemented in a modal analysis tool, and validated in three test networks: a Single Converter Infinite Bus system, a modified version of the WSCC nine-bus system; and the 39-bus system.

**Index Terms**—Slow-fast systems, SRF-PLL, synchronization stability, grid-following, weak grid.

## I. INTRODUCTION
Voltages and currents in an electrical, passive circuit, are the sum of natural transients, originating from the interconnection of resistances, inductances, and capacitors, and “forced” dynamics, originating from the generators and active devices connected to the circuit. For the stability analysis of power systems dominated by synchronous machines, passive circuits are conventionally treated as algebraic restrictions. The underlying assumption is that all transients have settled down (steady-state), and the internal currents and voltages are sinusoids at constant frequency. Since the synchronous machines are voltage sources, the most convenient way of representing the network is through a linear matrix equation that yields the currents of the buses as the product of their voltages times the admittances ($Y_{\text{bus}}$) [1].

Bulk power systems are transitioning from being dominated by synchronous machines, to being dominated by Voltage Source Converters (VSCs). Grid-following VSCs include a Phase-Locked Loop (PLL) that synchronizes the internal control angle with the voltage angle. Nevertheless, the analysis of the closed-loop dynamics shows that the “$di/dt$” effect of the inductors plays a crucial role [2], and is the mechanism, behind two types of small-signal instability [3], [4].

Driven by the transition taking place in power systems, the tools for analysis have also evolved. The model based on instantaneous signals (EMT) has gained momentum, even competing with the traditional Root Mean Square (RMS) model. Nevertheless, the EMT model requires more storage space and computation time compared to the RMS model, which complicates its application for the analysis of large bulk power networks.

Historically, there have been proposals to reduce the complexity of the problem. One of the earliest consists in the equivalencing of parts of the network and interconnecting them to a small vicinity of the node where the study is focused. For instance, the elements under study can be modeled with instantaneous differential equations, other part can be modeled with the RMS circuit model, and the forced dynamics of generators; and still another part (circuit and generators) can be modeled as a frequency-dependent load [5]. This can yield good results for digital relaying studies; but its application for the stability analysis of Voltage Source Converters has shown that it is difficult to define the boundary, as it is not straightforward what is the “vicinity”, especially because it seems to change with the tuning of the controls [6].

A different approach was taken by Milano and Ortega, who first applied the theory of time-scale separation to derive the Frequency Divider Formula [7], and later, proposed a methodology to update the algebraic constraint (RMS model) in each time-step of a transient stability simulation program [8]. This way, the voltage drop in the inductive branches was better approximated with the effect of the rotor dynamics; however, the analysis did not include Voltage Source Converters.

It is convenient to clarify that the concept of dynamic phasors cannot be considered an antecedent of this study. Dynamic Phasors was a concept born in the context of Phasor Measurement Units, and has to do more with signal processing and numerical techniques, rather than the problem this paper addresses. In this theory, a given waveform is abstracted as a phasor with a