# Shifted frequency analysis-EMTP multirate simulation of power systems
J.O. Tarazona a, *, A.T.J. Martí a, J.R. Martí a, F.A. Moreira b
a Electrical and Computer Engineering Department, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia V6T 1Z4, Canada
b Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Federal University of Bahia, Salvador, Bahia 40210-630, Brazil

**Keywords:** Shifted frequency analysis (SFA), Electromagnetic transients (EMT), Power system stability, Hybrid simulation, Multirate simulation

**Abstract:** This paper presents a novel hybrid multirate protocol to interface a Shifted Frequency Analysis (SFA) simulator and an Electromagnetic Transients (EMT) simulator. The proposed protocol is based on the Multi-Area Thévenin Equivalent conceptual framework and uses a second parallel simulation of the EMT simulator to track the imaginary part of the complex-valued solution from the SFA simulator. Having a Real-Part EMT simulation and an Imaginary-Part EMT simulation, running in parallel, maintains the analyticity and synchronicity of the SFA/EMT hybrid simulator and enables the use of large time steps in the SFA solution. This also allows the extraction of the fundamental frequency phasor of the EMT solution directly through the SFA transformation. The interfacing algorithm is demonstrated on the IEEE 39-bus system. The proposed protocol shows very good accuracy for capturing the electromechanical transients with the SFA simulator and an EMT-comparable accuracy with the EMT simulator. The results show the capability of the hybrid simulator to use significantly different solution steps in the SFA and EMT simulators, which results in considerable savings compared with an all-EMT solution. The proposed simulator would be very useful in conducting transient stability-type of studies when there is a need to model some devices with EMT accuracy.

*This work was supported in part by The Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC). F. A. Moreira acknowledges the financial support of the Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior – Brasil (CAPES) – Finance Code 001. Paper submitted to the International Conference on Power Systems Transients (IPST2021) in Belo Horizonte, Brazil June 06-10, 2021.*
*Corresponding author.*
*E-mail addresses:* jotarazona@gmail.com (J.O. Tarazona), a.marti@alumni.ubc.ca (A.T.J. Martí), jrms@ece.ubc.ca (J.R. Martí), moreiraf@ufba.br (F.A. Moreira).
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.epsr.2021.107292
Received 3 December 2020; Received in revised form 16 March 2021; Accepted 15 April 2021
Available online 11 May 2021

## 1. Introduction
COMPUTATIONAL tools for transient stability (TS) and electromagnetic transients (EMT) studies have traditionally been used separately. However, with the increase in the complexity of power systems due to the introduction of new technologies and their controls, and an increasing number of interconnections, the simulation needs are more complicated. It was with the advent of the High Voltage Direct Current (HVDC) transmission, that the need first arose to incorporate in the traditional set of tools used for stability studies, the kind of models available in the EMT-type of programs.

The detailed modelling of an HVDC link within a power system stability simulator was first proposed and implemented by Hefferman et al. [1]. In the past four decades, several publications have appeared in the literature for implementing TS-EMT hybrid simulators [2-8]. In many hybrid TS-EMT techniques the exchange of information between simulators occurs every TS time step, so at some point in the simulation, the EMT solution would be using a phasor solution that is one TS time step delayed. This may cause inaccuracies in the EMT solution in the presence of disturbances. To correct this, in [5] the interaction algorithm allows the EMT and TS solutions to iterate with each other until convergence is reached, and in [6], the TS and EMT solutions are made consistent by solving the TS and EMT equations simultaneously in a single large system of equations. In traditional hybrid TS-EMT techniques, the TS subsystem is represented in the EMT subsystem as either a multi- or single-port Norton [8] or Thévenin equivalent [3, 4, 5, 7]. For these equivalents, the impedances are evaluated at one single frequency, either the fundamental or the actual system frequency, as in [3] and [5], hence, in the presence of significant transients flowing through the boundaries this representation of the TS subsystem may not be accurate enough for the EMT solution. To solve this problem, in [6] a frequency-dependent network equivalent (FDNE) is used in the Thévenin equivalent of the TS subsystem. However, using an FDNE may cause the solution to become numerically unstable due to the high order transfer function required and, also, any change in the topology of the TS subsystem cannot be easily accommodated because the FDNE is fixed for the whole simulation [8].

Other research in hybrid simulators has centred on developing an integrative approach to model TS and EMT tasks. Instead of coupling two different simulation frameworks, the solution is based on the concept called Frequency Adaptive Simulation of Transients (FAST), to cover the application spectrum of typical EMT and TS programs [9]. In this approach, the entire system is first solved for fast transients in EMT

## 2. Shifted frequency analysis of power systems
A power system bandpass signal $u(t)$, with its frequency spectrum centred on the system frequency $\omega_0$, can be represented as
$$u(t) = u_I(t)\cos\omega_0 t - u_Q(t)\sin\omega_0 t \tag{1}$$