# Shooting method based modular multilevel converter initialization for electromagnetic transient analysis
D. del Giudice$^{a,*}$, F. Bizzarri$^{a,b}$, D. Linaro$^{a}$, A. Brambilla$^{a}$
$^{a}$ Dipartimento di Elettronica, Informazione e Bioingegneria, Politecnico di Milano, p.za Leonardo da Vinci, 32, I20133, Milano, Italy
$^{b}$ Advanced Research Center on Electronic Systems ‘‘E. De Castro’’ (ARCES), University of Bologna, Italy
* Corresponding author. E-mail addresses: davide.delguidice@polimi.it (D. del Giudice), federico.bizzarri@polimi.it (F. Bizzarri), daniele.linaro@polimi.it (D. Linaro), angelo.brambilla@polimi.it (A. Brambilla).

**Keywords:** Modular multilevel converter, Initialization, Steady-state, Shooting method, Thévenin equivalent model, Average model, Electromagnetic transient simulation

**Abstract:** This paper presents an accurate and efficient initialization strategy for modular multilevel converters (MMCs) based on the shooting method, a numerical technique aimed at deriving the periodic steady-state operating condition of any circuit. This technique is compatible with MMC models of different levels of detail and whose control scheme may include modulation strategies and capacitor voltage balancing algorithms. Electromagnetic transient simulations of the NORDIC32 power system modified by adding a high-voltage direct current link with 128-level MMCs prove that the proposed initialization strategy allows starting simulations close to steady-state, thereby significantly limiting initialization transients and their corresponding extra CPU time.

## 1. Introduction
The modular multilevel converter (MMC) has become a very popular technology for high-voltage direct current (HVDC) systems. The key feature of the MMC is its modularity, as each of its arms includes a large stack of identical submodules (SMs). On the one hand, this trait grants several advantages (including easy scalability to high voltage and power applications [1]), which contributed to the growing deployment of MMCs. On the other hand, the multitude of SMs in the MMC and its advanced control scheme hinder the execution of common power systems simulator tasks, such as initialization and electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulations [2].

After ad hoc techniques are used to compute the power flow solution of MMC-based systems [3], the initialization stage derives the internal state and algebraic variables of its components so that subsequent EMT simulations begin from steady-state [4]. Such simulations are fundamental in the MMC design stage to validate converter controls and components during normal operating conditions and disturbances.

Although initialization has become a standard practice for traditional power system elements (e.g., synchronous generators and their regulators), it is still anything but trivial for those interfaced with the grid through converters, including MMCs. A brute-force approach to avoid the need for a full-fledged initialization consists in skipping this task and start EMT simulations anyway. This ploy, however, has two drawbacks.
- The user should wait some time for the extinction of initialization transients (needed for all the variables of the system – MMCs included – to reach steady-state operation) before applying changes (e.g., disturbances or faults), otherwise unwanted transients and inaccurate results could be observed.
- Wrong initialization (or lack thereof) may even prevent the correct start of MMC-based grid simulations. To address this issue, MMC start-up sequences [5] (or other expedients like those described in Section IV.A of [6] and 4.10 of [7]) can be used. However, this solution introduces waiting times, too. Indeed, before studying any event, the user must wait for the start-up sequence to end, and for the effects it has on grid voltage and frequency to decay. For simplicity, also these effects are hereafter associated to initialization transients.

Waiting times translate into additional CPU time needed to perform the time domain analysis that brings the entire power system to work at steady-state before the application of a disturbance or fault. This aspect is challenging when simulating MMCs, as they introduce a high computational burden (especially if detailed models are used) [8]. Thus, proper initialization techniques are essential to minimize waiting times and boost the efficiency of EMT simulations of MMC-based grids.

To the best of our knowledge, the literature on MMC initialization is limited. The works in [9–11] initialize MMCs but assume that control signals are known and given by only the fundamental (synchronous) frequency. However, closed-loop regulation schemes are used in actual MMC-based systems, which implies that control signals cannot be known in advance. Moreover, as in the case of circulating current suppression strategies, control signals may include harmonics. A more sophisticated strategy is proposed in [12]. However, the second harmonic of the circulating current suppression control signals is still assumed to be known, and analyses are limited to basic case studies involving a single MMC. Lastly, the technique developed in [13] assumes that arm currents and voltages contain only the DC and the fundamental component.

## 2. Modular multilevel converters in a nutshell
### 2.1. Topology and control
Fig. 1 depicts a version of an MMC. It includes three phase-legs, each of which consists of an upper and lower arm. In turn, every arm comprises a reactor ($R_S$, $L_S$) and a cascading stack of $N$ SMs,