# Simplified EMT Model of Multiple-active-bridge Based Power Electronic Transformer with Integrated Energy Storage
Jianzhong Xu, Senior Member, IEEE, Conghui Zheng, Wanying Xu, Moke Feng, Chengyong Zhao, Senior Member, IEEE, and Gen Li, Senior Member, IEEE

Manuscript received November 18, 2022; revised January 21, 2023; accepted March 3, 2023. Date of online publication February 14, 2024; date of current version March 18, 2024. This work is supported by Beijing Natural Science Foundation under grant 3222059.
J. Z. Xu, C. H. Zheng, W. Y. Xu, and C. Y. Zhao are with the State Key Laboratory of Alternate Electrical Power System with Renewable Energy Sources, North China Electric Power University, Beijing, China.
G. Li (corresponding author, email: genli@dtu.dk) is with the Electric Energy Section, Department of Engineering Technology, Technical University of Denmark (DTU), 2750 Ballerup, Denmark.
DOI: 10.17775/CSEEJPES.2022.08160
2096-0042 © 2022 CSEE. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).

**Abstract**—Due to the advanced features of multidirectional power transfer and fast smoothing of the power fluctuation in renewable energy systems, the multiple-active-bridge based power-electronic-transformer (MAB-PET) with integrated energy storage units is becoming popular. However, the accurate electromagnetic transient simulation of the MAB-PETs is extremely time-consuming due to the large number of circuit nodes and small time-step. This paper proposes a simplified EMT modeling approach for the MAB-PETs by employing the generalized state-space averaging method. First, the switching function method and Dommel algorithm are used to build the equivalent model of each power module. Further, the PET equivalent model is presented in a multi-port PM polymerization mode. The system is simplified by applying Fourier Decomposition to its state functions by ignoring high-order harmonics. Finally, a four-port equivalent voltage source circuit is obtained. The proposed simplified equivalent model is compared with the detailed model in PSCAD/EMTDC. Simulation results show the proposed approach has excellent accuracy and is 2–3 orders of magnitude faster than the DM.

**Index Terms**—Energy storage sub-module (ESS), generalized state average method, multiple-active-bridge (MAB), simplified electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation.

## I. INTRODUCTION
The intermittent and random characteristics of distributed renewable energy bring challenges to the security and stability of the power system [1], [2]. Energy storage can be an effective solution to address the challenges [3], [4]. Recently, the power electronic transformer (PET) with integrated energy storage has been gaining wide attention because it can achieve both flexible power transfer and energy storage and therefore is able to smooth power fluctuations [5], [6].

There are various kinds of PET power modules (PMs): single active bridge (SAB), dual active bridge (DAB), multiple-active-bridge (MAB), quadruple active bridge (QAB), cascaded H-bridge (CHB), etc. [7]. MAB reduces the number of high-frequency transformers within the PMs, avoids redundant intermediate power conversion links, and realizes direct power transfer and control among multiple ports. Hence, the MAB-PET has been utilized in practical distribution networks [8].

The electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation of MAB-PET is an instrumental technology that assesses the dynamic characteristics of power systems prior to their implementation in the system [9]. However, the high-speed and accurate EMT simulation of PETs, especially for the energy storage-based MAB-PET, encounters a lot of difficulties.

Compared with classical modular multilevel converters (MMCs), of which the simulation theories have already been mature [10], the equivalent modeling of PETs still has a long way to go because each PM of PETs contains the high-frequency link (HFL), complex internal structures and a large number of circuit nodes. Moreover, the simulation time-step of PET is much smaller than MMC, which makes the simulation efficiency of PET much lower [11].

To accelerate the simulation speed of PETs, several modeling methods have been proposed: the averaged-value model (AVM), the dynamic phasor model, and the Thevenin’s equivalent model [12]. The AVM replaces the actual value with the average value over the switching period and therefore can only consider the fundamental frequency and DC components [13]–[15]. It sacrifices accuracy for better simulation efficiency. The dynamic phasor model can consider all DC, fundamental and harmonic components. It is compatible with a larger simulation time step up to several hundred microseconds. Compared with AVM, the dynamic phasor model has higher accuracy but lower efficiency [16], [17]. The Thevenin equivalent model retains all internal and external electrical information of the detailed model (DM) and can speed up the simulation significantly. [18]–[21] accelerates the modeling of DAB and CHB-based PETs by circuit preprocessing, internal node elimination, and HFL decoupling. However, with the increase of the PET voltages and power ratings, the complexity of PET topology increases. It is difficult to simplify the equivalent model by preprocessing, internal node elimination, and high-frequency chain decoupling. Therefore, the efficiency of the Thevenin equivalent models will become worse.

The power system is demanding multi-time-scale regulation of the energy resources; the grid-connected energy storage system gradually transforms from single energy storage to hybrid energy storage [22]. This makes the control of the energy storage system more complex and further increases the difficulty of simulation [23]. Therefore, it is of great engineering importance to establish an equivalent model with energy storage interfaces that is suitable for both single and hybrid energy storage.

3) The ESS model is constructed by the binary resistance method and the Dommel method. To meet the requirements of hybrid energy storage, the interface of the energy storage is reserved.
4) Compared to t