# Spurious Power Losses in Modular Multilevel Converter Arm Equivalent Model
Anton Stepanov, Student Member, IEEE, Hani Saad, Member, IEEE, Ulas Karaagac, Member, IEEE, Jean Mahseredjian, Fellow, IEEE

**Abstract**—This paper demonstrates the presence of spurious power losses or generation in the Arm Equivalent Model (AEM) of Modular Multilevel Converters. Such power losses can occur if model equations are not solved simultaneously with surrounding power circuit equations, which is the case when the AEM is implemented using control system blocks in an electromagnetic transient simulation software. Depending on operating conditions and simulation parameters, these additional losses can represent a significant part of the total converter station losses or even surpass them, thus making simulation results inaccurate. Analytical demonstration of the losses is presented, and several models that eliminate the losses are proposed. Based on simulation studies, only the variable resistance model and equivalent voltage source model can give accurate simulation results without significantly increasing simulation time and generating or consuming spurious power.

**Index Terms**—arm equivalent model, high-voltage direct current, losses, modeling, modular multilevel converter

## I. INTRODUCTION
The Modular Multilevel Converter (MMC) shown in Fig. 1 is a Voltage Source Converter (VSC) topology that has several advantages in comparison with conventional two- and three-level power electronic converters. Increasing the number of sub-modules (SMs) per arm helps to reduce or even eliminate filters, improve reliability and easily achieve scalability to higher voltages. In addition, MMCs have lower losses, switching frequency, transient peak voltages and switching voltages [1], [2]. During normal operation, the desired AC voltage waveform is constructed by inserting or bypassing the appropriate number of SMs [3].

Due to the increased structural complexity of this type of converter compared to the conventional VSCs, a larger set of models is applicable in electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulations, including detailed model (DM), detailed equivalent model (DEM), and arm equivalent model (AEM) [4]. The choice of the model depends on the required accuracy and computational burden. The DM and DEM provide high accuracy but require significant computational resources, while the AEM offers a compromise between required accuracy and tolerable computational burden [5].

The models that include SM level details (DM and DEM) require relatively large simulation times when compared to the simplified counterparts due to increased complexity and smaller time-step usage (in the order of several $\mu$s or less) that is needed to achieve high accuracy [6]. The AEM represents all individual SMs as a single equivalent circuit (see Fig. 2), which makes this model advantageous for a large set of grid studies where the converter behavior on SM level is disregarded [7], [8]. Therefore, larger time-steps can be used (tens of $\mu$s) [6], [9].

The AEM can be implemented in different ways in an EMT-type software. The model equations can be incorporated into the main network equations (MNE), in which case the model equations can be solved simultaneously with the network. However, the main drawback is the inaccessibility of model equations to the user. Otherwise, the model equations can be implemented using control diagram blocks of the EMT software [10], [11]. In this case, the drawback is the one-time-step delay between the solution of control blocks and MNE in EMT-type software.

In this article it will be demonstrated that in the second approach (model in control blocks), additional spurious power losses can occur, that can affect the overall behavior of the circuit and make the simulation results less accurate. Similar phenomenon of additional losses has been reported in [12] for AVM but no detailed explanations have been provided. Therefore, analytical formulation of such losses for AEM is presented in this paper and solutions to remediate the problem are discussed. Proposed solutions are validated on a practical test case of an MMC-based HVDC transmission.

$I_{DC}$, Thevenin equivalent, $v_{arm}$, $i_{ua}$, $i_{ub}$, $i_{uc}$, $i_{arm}$, $R_{arm}$, SM, SM, SM, $V_{DC}$