# Stability Evaluation of Interpolation, Extrapolation, and Numerical Oscillation Damping Methods Applied in EMT Simulation of Power Networks with Switching Transients
Huanfeng Zhao, Student Member, IEEE, Shengtao Fan, Member, IEEE, Aniruddha M. Gole, Fellow, IEEE,

**Abstract**—For Electro-Magnetic-Transient (EMT) simulations of power networks with switches, techniques such as linear interpolation and Critical Damping Adjustment (CDA) are widely used for improving numerical robustness. This paper analyzes the numerical stability of simulations with these techniques. Firstly, it is mathematically shown that the interpolation or CDA step is equivalent to the introduction of additional switching states. Subsequently, Common Quadratic Lyapunov Function (CQLF) theory is used to investigate the numerical stability of the whole simulation considering these new switching states. It is proved that the widely used strategies like linear interpolation and CDA always result a stable simulation if the original switched system is strictly passive in all switching states. Finally, it is shown that the developed approach can be used to determine the stability of other practical interpolation methods. Examples are provided to verify the proposed technique.

**Index Terms**—interpolation, critical damping adjustment (CDA), stability, CQLF, EMT simulation, power electronic devices,

## I. INTRODUCTION
In power system studies [1, 2], electromagnetic transient digital simulators like ATP, EMTP, PSCAD/EMTDC, NETOMAC, RTDS, etc. are widely used for modeling networks with power electronic switches. In these programs, the switches are typically modeled as bi-valued resistors or ideal switches. The trapezoidal integration method is used to generate the companion circuit elements, from which the system response can be determined using admittance matrix based analysis [3]. For accurate representation of the switching, several factors must be considered as listed below.

1) Firstly, the switching operation does not typically coincide with the time step grid. For example, while simulating a diode, the zero current at which the device turns off may occur between time-steps. Forcing the switching to coincide with a time-step in such cases results in additional transients due to current chopping or non-characteristic harmonics [4, 5]. One practical solution in many commercial EMT solvers (e.g., NETOMAC, PSCAD, etc.) is to use linear interpolation to locate the exact switching instant. From the start to the end of a time-step, the currents and voltages can be presumed to vary linearly. For instance, consider the diode turn-off problem shown in Fig. 1, where the current crosses zero within the interval $[0, \Delta t]$, at time $\delta t$. The algorithm determines that the crossing must lie in $[0, \Delta t]$ because the current at $\Delta t$ is negative. Subsequently, linear interpolation is applied to determine the zero crossing of the current to be at $\delta t$ as shown in Fig. 1. The tentative time-step solution at $\Delta t$ is disregarded in the simulation, and the interpolated solution at $\delta t$ is retained as the “true” solution. However, this creates the problem, that the next simulation point using the same time-step would be $\Delta t + \delta t$, which is not on the original time grid. Other ways to improve the interpolation accuracy can be found in reference [6], where a two stage interpolation method is proposed which improves the accuracy of interpolation to second order.

2) Consider the simulation of an inductor in series with a diode as shown in Fig. 1. Let us ignore interpolation for the time being and assume that the current goes to zero precisely at time $\Delta t$. The theoretical variation of inductor voltage is shown in the Fig. 2. Although the current is continuous during the switching operation, the voltage is not, i.e., the voltages $v_L(t^+)$ and $v_L(t^-)$, just after and just before the switch operation differ from each other. Now, the calculation of the history current source by the trapezoidal method requires a knowledge of the inductor voltage and current in the previous time step. Only one of these, $v_L(t^+)$ will yield the correct history term for calculating the solution at $t = 2\Delta t$. However, the companion circuit method in EMT solvers cannot directly give $v_L(t^+)$, as $v_L(t^-)$ is the last calculated voltage value.

**Fig. 1.** Interpolation example

*This work is supported in part by the IRC program of NSERC, Canada, H.*