# Stability of Algorithms for Electro-Magnetic-Transient Simulation of Networks with Switches and Non-linear Inductors
Huanfeng Zhao, Student Member, IEEE, Shengtao Fan, Member, IEEE, Aniruddha M. Gole, Fellow, IEEE,

**Abstract—** This paper extends the analysis of the stability of electromagnetic transient simulation algorithms to non-linear systems with switching elements and non-linear inductor branches. A theoretical analysis based on common quadratic Lyapunov function (CQLF) theory is used to investigate the stability of numerical algorithms for the simulation of lumped strictly passive switched circuits (LSPSC). It is proved that only when certain fundamental physical properties, i.e., passivity and invariance of Lyapunov energy function are satisfied, does the widely used trapezoidal method result in stable simulations of such networks for any time-step size. This is different from the simulation of linear time invariant (LTI) systems where any real-world stable system has a stable simulation if an A-stable integration method (e.g., trapezoidal rule) is used. Subsequently, it is shown that the problem of simulating a piecewise linear inductor can be equivalent to simulating a LSPSC; and ergo its simulation with the trapezoidal rule is also stable.

**Index Terms—** Switched system simulation, Stability, EMT, Lyapunov energy function, Passivity, Non-linear inductor, Power electronic switch

## I. INTRODUCTION
ELECTRO-MAGNETIC-TRANSIENT (EMT) type digital simulation tools such as ATP, EMTP, PSCAD/EMTDC, RTDS, etc. are widely used in power system applications, especially when power electronic converters are included [1, 2]. These digital tools model the network in very high detail and provide the most accurate simulation results over a wide frequency range, as compared with more approximate modelling tools such as transient stability programs. An important necessary property for the simulation algorithm is that a stable real-world system should have a stable simulation (i.e., one that has bounded output for bounded excitation).

Typically, these tools utilize the trapezoidal rule for numerical integration. This A-stable algorithm is known to with switches such as power electronic systems. However, one unexplored area is the theory to support this observed experience. The focus of this paper is the stability of simulations of this class of non-linear systems, an area that has not been worked on in the past.

Some publications have discussed the stability of actual switched systems [4-8], but little has been done to analyze the stability of the simulations of such systems. Consider a system with linear elements and $s$ switches. Each of the $2s$ switching state combinations individually is a linear circuit, and would result in a stable simulation if no switch operated and the system remained in that configuration. However [9] shows that even though every switching state is individually stable, it does not imply that the system is stable, under arbitrary operation of the switches. In reference [10], an example is provided to show that a real-world switched system can still be unstable even if every switching state is stable and strictly passive.

The above works considered the stability of real-world switched systems. This paper investigates the stability of the simulations of such systems. Earlier research has focused on the stability of simulation of linear lumped energy storage components such as inductors and capacitors [11-13]. However, it does not consider the stability when non-linear elements are present, nor does it discuss the stability of networks in which such elements are connected by switches that turn on and off. In this paper, the Lypunov energy function technique is applied to study the global stability of numerical algorithms for simulating circuits with switches and nonlinear inductors. Here the switches are assumed to be modeled as bi-valued resistances. Such models are routinely used for the simulation of power systems with power-electronic devices, e.g., HVDC or FACTS systems.

Lyapunov theory and the passivity property are briefly summarized in Section II, after which Section III develops the