## STATE EQUATION APPROXIMATION OF TRANSFER MATRICES AND ITS APPLICATION TO THE PHASE DOMAIN CALCULATION OF ELECTROMAGNETIC TRANSIENTS
A. Oguz Soysal$^+$, Adam Semlyen
Department of Electrical Engineering
University of Toronto
Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5S 1A4
On leave from Kocaeli University, Turkey.

**Abstract** - A general methodology is presented for the state equation approximation of a multiple input-output linear system from transfer matrix data. A complex transformation matrix, obtained by eigenanalysis at a fixed frequency, is used for diagonalization of the transfer matrix over the whole frequency range. A scalar estimation procedure is applied for identification of the modal transfer functions. The state equations in the original coordinates are obtained by inverse transformation. An iterative Gauss-Newton refinement process is used to reduce the overall error of the approximation.

The developed methodology is applied to the phase domain modeling of untransposed transmission lines. The approach makes it possible to perform EMTP calculations directly in the phase domain. This results in conceptual simplification and savings in computation time since modal transformations are not needed in the sequences of the transient analysis. The presented procedure is compared with the conventional modal approach in terms of accuracy and computation time.

**Keywords:** Transfer function matrices, Parameter estimation, Frequency response, Identification, State equation approximation, Electromagnetic transients.

## INTRODUCTION
Modeling of power system components has been a major concern in the development of the computational tools for electromagnetic transient studies. At present, the commonly used programs based on the procedure described in [1] and [2] perform the simulations in the time domain because of the resulting flexibility in simulating switching operations and fault conditions. However, the modeling of various components has initially to be made with frequency domain formulation in order to reflect their frequency dependent behavior.

The transmission line parameters can be determined by using basic field relations together with Carson's formulae or with the concept of complex penetration depth. The frequency domain behavior of a transmission line is usually characterized by two complex functions, the propagation transfer function $H_p$, and the characteristic admittance (or impedance) function $Y_c(s)$. The line models used in EMTP (the Electro-Magnetic Transients Program) are based on the rational function approximation of the wide frequency range variation of the $H_p$ and $Y_c$ functions [3]-[5].

In conventional EMTP studies modal transformations are used for modeling of unbalanced multiphase lines. Calculations related to traveling waves are performed for the decoupled modes and phase domain variables are obtained by inverse transformation. It has been common practice to use constant real transformation matrices for modal decomposition. Because of frequency dependence, a fixed transformation can obviously not provide perfect diagonalization over a wide frequency range. In most cases, where the frequency dependence is not too significant, the non-diagonal elements of the transformed $H_p$ and $Y_c$ matrices may be neglected, so that the modes can be assumed decoupled.

Transformers are also essential components of power systems. Various transformer models have been proposed for the analysis of electromagnetic transients. Either detailed winding models or external terminal representations may be used depending on the availability of the required data [6]-[9]. A general survey of the literature indicates, however, the need for an improved frequency dependent representation of three phase multi-winding transformers applicable to standard EMTP studies [10]. Thus, the need for solving the general problem of multi-terminal analysis for different system components or multi-port network equivalents [11] becomes evident.

In this paper, a general methodology is presented for the state space modeling of multiple input-output linear system from frequency domain transfer matrix data. It is applicable in any relevant field of dynamic systems analysis. Either a measured or an analytically obtained frequency response matrix may be used as a data base for describing the process. A complex transformation matrix obtained by eigenanalysis at a fixed frequency is used for diagonalization of the transfer matrix over the whole frequency range. A scalar estimation procedure [9] is used to identify the modal transfer functions. The transfer matrix in the original coordinates is then approximated by state equations by an iterative process (a Gauss-Newton refinement). The state equation approximation of a transfer matrix, as shown in this paper, is a minimal realization [12] as its order corresponds to that required by the diagonalized matrix. Therefore, it is of much lower order than what could be obtained by "brute force" through fitting to each element of the matrix. Still, diagonalizability of the transfer matrix (by a constant transformation) is not a requirement due to the final refinement procedure.

The particular objective of the paper is the application of the presented methodology to the phase domain modeling of untransposed transmission lines. The approach makes it possible to perform the EMTP calculations directly in the phase domain rather than in the modal domain. The presented procedure is compared with the conventional modal approach in terms of accuracy and computation time. While both methods provide good accuracy, the direct phase domain approach can serve as a standard of reference and also results in reduced computation time. Although the specific application shown is for overhead transmission lines, as a first test of feasibility, the methodology is general and can be used for other power system equipment such as three phase transformers, rotating machines, and cables. In the latter case, to be examined in a sequel to this paper, its use seems to be almost unavoidable because of the strong frequency dependence of the modal transformation matrices [13].

## STATE EQUATION APPROXIMATION OF TRANSFER MATRICES
The outline of the basic methodology developed for the state equation approximation of power system components is presented below. The approach may be applied to any multiple input-output system for