This article has been accepted for publication in a future issue of this journal, but has not been fully edited. Content may change prior to final publication.
DOI: 10.17775/CSEEJPES.2024.03600

# A Fixed-Admittance Algorithm for the FPGA-Based Microsecond-Level Nonlinear Real-Time Simulation of the Hybrid DCCB
Hang Su, Jin Xu, Member, IEEE, Jianqi Zhou, Zhiping Qi, Jianghua Yu, and Keyou Wang, Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—The hybrid high-voltage DC circuit breaker (DCCB) is equipment with the typical nonlinear response in fault-clearing. As an alternative or prior step to drive and control system testing, it is necessary to perform real-time simulations of the DCCB, which improves safety compared to circuit experiments. The response of equipment containing nonlinear components, represented by the DCCB, is more complex, with time scales of milliseconds or even microseconds. The key to realizing nonlinear real-time simulation is to efficiently and accurately solve circuits with nonlinear/time-varying components. In this paper, the concept of "virtual component" is proposed to keep the admittance matrix constant in nonlinear simulation by performing equivalent circuit transformations on a small number of nonlinear components in the network, thus effectively improving the simulation efficiency. Compared to traditional nonlinear methods, the virtual-component-based electromagnetic transient (VC-EMT) method avoids network decoupling, multiple iterations, and solves the compensation hysteresis. The results show that the VC-EMT method realizes accurate and efficient real-time simulation of 500kV/25kA DCCB with a maximum error of less than 0.5% at 1μs time step.

**Index Terms**—Real-time simulation, Nonlinear systems, DC circuit breaker, Fixed-admittance, Virtual component

*Manuscript received May 19, 2024; revised October 23, 2024; accepted December 2023, 2024. This work was supported in part by the National Key R&D Program of China (2022YFE0105200), in part by State Grid Zhejiang Electric Power Company Science and Technology Program (5211JX230004), and in part by Anhui Key Research and Development Program 2023, Yangtze River Delta Science and Technology Cooperation Project (2023i11020005).*

Hang Su, Jin Xu, Keyou Wang (Corresponding author, e-mail: wangkeyou@sjtu.edu.cn) are with the Ministry of Education, Key Laboratory of Control of Power Transmission and Conversion, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai 200240, China.
Jianqi Zhou is with the State Grid Jiaxing Power Supply Company, Jiaxing 314033, China.
Zhiping Qi and Jianghua Yu are with the Hekai Electric Company, Heifei 231131, China.

## I. INTRODUCTION
THE hybrid high-voltage DC circuit breaker (DCCB) as the most ideal and fastest solution for clearing fault current and isolating faulted lines in flexible DC transmission systems [1]-[2], is the equipment with the typical nonlinear and fast dynamic response [3], which puts forward new requirements for nonlinear simulation in accuracy and efficiency.

During fault-clearing, the DCCB goes through high current transfer and shutoff, establishment, and maintenance of overvoltage, and energy dissipation in milliseconds. The electromagnetic transients (EMT) are characterized as follows:
1) Nonlinear response: The metal oxide varistor (MOV) of the DCCB is a typical nonlinear component, with its equivalent parameters varying after the voltages greater than the turn-on threshold. It will also experience overshoots and oscillations during fault-clearing.
2) High stress of voltage and current: The low impedance of the system leads to a rapid rise in the short-circuit current (generally in about kA/ms). In addition, due to the large absolute value of the voltage and current as well as the short commutation process (generally about tens to hundreds of microseconds), the stress can be up to kA/μs or kV/μs.

To accurately describe and reappear the EMT of the DCCB, the researchers carried out in-depth analysis and modeling: [4] proposes an equivalent model of the DCCB test circuit, [5]-[6] propose a variety of MOV dynamic models with high accuracy and simple parameter acquisition. The similarity of the above works is the construction of behavioral models including linear and nonlinear circuits based on RLC components and their stray parameters, and the accuracy of the models has been demonstrated by circuit experiments [7].

As key equipment for clearing critical faults such as short circuits, DCCB's high-voltage and large-current fault test conditions are highly hazardous to both equipment and personnel. In addition, conducting short-circuit fault tests requires high hardware and experimental sites, and the number of qualified test sites is far from meeting the test demand. Therefore, it is difficult to carry out a power-in-the-loop (PIL) test on DCCB, and a hardware-in-the-loop (HIL) test is required as an auxiliary method. DCCB real-time simulation technology can help real-time simulators to simulate the nonlinear dynamic process of DCCB on the real-time scale and support HIL tests on DCCB control and protection systems with real physical signal interactions, which cannot be realized by adopting off-line platforms such as PSCAD/EMTDC and other non-real-time simulation. Therefore, it is necessary to conduct real-time simulation research on DCCB.

For real-time simulation of nonlinear systems containing time-varying components, more detailed studies related to electric machines [8], transformers [9], and converters [10] have been conducted. But very rarely about the DCCB, preliminary explorations have been carried out in [11]. The biggest challenge in the real-time simulation of DCCB is to simulate more complex EMT using smaller step sizes while ensuring that the solution is accurate and efficient. Considering