# Supplementary techniques for 2S-DIRK-based EMT simulations

T. Noda$^{a,*}$, T. Kikuma$^{b}$, R. Yonezawa$^{a}$

$^{a}$ Electric Power Engineering Research Laboratory, Central Research Institute of Electric Power Industry (CRIEPI), 2-6-1 Nagasaka, Yokosuka, Kanagawa 240-0196, Japan
$^{b}$ System Engineering Research Laboratory, Central Research Institute of Electric Power Industry (CRIEPI), 2-11-1 Iwado-kita, Komae, Tokyo 201-8511, Japan

$^{*}$ Corresponding author. Tel.: +81 7055907052; fax: +81 468563540.
E-mail addresses: takunoda@ieee.org (T. Noda), kikuma@criepi.denken.or.jp (T. Kikuma), yonezawa@criepi.denken.or.jp (R. Yonezawa).

**Abstract**
Electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulations are now often used for system studies including power electronics converters which control voltages and currents using switching devices. The trapezoidal method, used in Electro-Magnetic Transients Program (EMTP) for numerical integration, produces “fictitious” sustained numerical oscillation, when an inductor current or a capacitor voltage is suddenly changed especially by switching. To cope with this problem, the research group of the authors has proposed applying the two-stage diagonally implicit Runge–Kutta (2S-DIRK) method which is an inherently “oscillation-free” numerical integration method. In order to bring out full accuracy of the 2S-DIRK method, supplementary numerical techniques are required for the representation of voltage sources, current sources and switches. This paper illustrates these techniques with numerical examples.

**Keywords:** Numerical integration; Numerical oscillation; Switching; Trapezoidal method; 2S-DIRK method

## 1. Introduction

Electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulations are becoming more and more important. Traditional applications of EMT simulations include studies of overvoltages, inrush currents, abnormal oscillations, harmonics and relay settings. In addition to these traditional applications, EMT simulations are now often used for system studies including power electronics converters. Since power-electronics converters control voltages and currents using switching devices, waveform-level simulations, in other words, EMT simulations are often essential.

For EMT simulations, Electro-Magnetic Transients Program (EMTP) has been used, and now other programs are also used. The legacy versions of EMTP use the genuine trapezoidal method for the numerical integration of dynamic circuit elements such as inductors and capacitors [1]. The trapezoidal method is a simple single-step integration method which calculates the solution at the present time step only from values at the previous time step. In spite of its simple formula, the trapezoidal method has a second-order accuracy and is A-stable. When an integration method is said to be A-stable, it does not diverge for any time step size. However, the trapezoidal method produces “fictitious” sustained numerical oscillation, which does not exist in real EMT phenomena, for a sudden change of a variable. This numerical oscillation appears when an inductor current or a capacitor voltage is suddenly changed, and this can be a serious drawback for EMT simulations including switches and highly nonlinear elements. To deal with this problem, critical damping adjustment (CDA) has been proposed and implemented in newer versions of EMTP [2,3]. In CDA, the trapezoidal method is basically used, and only at a moment a sudden change of a variable is detected the integration method is replaced by the backward Euler method. In most cases, an acceptable result is obtained, since the backward Euler method does not produce sustained numerical oscillation. In practical implementations [3], switching events, sudden changes of voltage and current source values, and changes of the operating points of nonlinear components represented by piece-wise linear curves are detected to switch the integration method. However, the detection of a sudden change of a variable is not always feasible. For instance, a voltage or current source controlled by a control system can produce a sudden change due to a limiter operation, but detecting this is quite difficult. Detecting all types of sudden changes by programming can be a serious overhead of execution time. Consequently, an inherently “oscillation-free” integration method is essential to solve this problem. In [4], the research group of the authors has proposed applying the two-stage diagonally implicit Runge–Kutta (2S-DIRK) method for the numerical integration of power system EMT simulations. The 2S-DIRK method has a second-order accuracy and is A-stable like the trapezoidal method [5,6]. In addition, it is mathematically guaranteed that the 2S-DIRK method does not produce sustained numerical oscillation, that is, it is an oscillation-free numerical integration method [5,6].

In order to bring out full accuracy of the 2S-DIRK method, supplementary numerical techniques are required for the representation of voltage sources, current sources and switches. This paper illustrates these techniques with numerical examples.

The time step used is 1 ms. The calculated result obtained by the 2S-DIRK method is shown in Fig. 1(b). A spike voltage is generated when the current is changed stepwise. This is consistent with the circuit theory. On the other