## Switch-Averaged Frequency Domain Simulation of Photovoltaic Systems
Santiago Agudelo, Student Member, IEEE, Fausto Diaz, Member, IEEE, Abner Ramirez, Senior Member, IEEE, and Jesus Morales, Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—This paper pushes forward frequency domain (FD) modeling of switched networks aimed at transient simulation, with particular interest in photovoltaic (PV) systems. The PV system simulation is performed via the numerical Laplace transform (NLT) in a sequential (partitioned-time) fashion by using a set of time-windows. The proposed technique enhances existing FD PV models by a) averaging switching functions and b) using sample overlapping to alleviate numerical oscillations due to rise-time phenomenon at time-window interfaces. The proposed enhancements provide a more efficient dynamic simulation compared to both classical single-window full-sample NLT implementation and non-averaged FD PV models. Verification is performed via prevalent electromagnetic transient (EMT) software tools.

**Index Terms**—Frequency domain analysis, laplace transforms, and photovoltaic systems.

*Manuscript received 30 January 2022; revised 16 May 2022; accepted 15 August 2022. Date of publication 18 August 2022; date of current version 24 March 2023. This work was supported by CONACYT-Mexico scholarships, under Grants 937566 and 754353. Paper no. TPWRD-00131-2022. (Corresponding author: Abner Ramirez.)*

Santiago Agudelo, Fausto Diaz, and Abner Ramirez are with the CINVESTAV Campus Guadalajara, Zapopan, JAL 45017, Mexico (e-mail: santiago.agudelo@cinvestav.mx; fausto.diaz@cinvestav.mx; abner.ramirez@cinvestav.mx).

Jesus Morales is with the PGSTech - EMTP, Montreal, QC H2K 1C3, Canada (e-mail: jesus.morales@emtp.com).

## I. INTRODUCTION

Transient simulation of switched networks involving renewable energy sources has received great attention over the last few decades. Interaction with the conventional electrical network, increasing penetration levels, stability issues, and protection design are among the reasons for which power engineers and researchers dedicate a great deal of time and effort to the simulation of such networks.

There are several techniques for the analysis of networks involving power electronic devices, in this paper referred to as switched networks, intended for either transient analysis or steady state calculations. Depending on the type of study and network characteristics, some techniques are better suited than others. As for transient analysis, constant-parameters switched networks can be readily simulated in time-domain (TD) [1], [2], [3], [4] while switched networks involving frequency-dependent components can naturally be studied via FD methods [5], [6], [7], [8], [9], [10], [11]. This paper focuses on transient analysis in FD via the NLT.

Computational resources is a major issue for both TD and FD techniques when switching dynamics are under interest. In [2], the EMTP-RV software tool is employed to simulate wind and PV resources integrated to the utility grid. As EMTP-RV is a TD-based method, a small time-step has to be utilized to accurately reproduce switching dynamics [4]. In a step forward, the parallel architecture of the graphics processing unit (GPU) is combined with CPU capabilities to achieve efficient transient simulations for large PV systems [3]. On the other hand, in classical implementation of the NLT transient calculations assume a single (usually large) time-window; this involves a prohibitive number of samples. A partitioned-time simulation is proposed in [8] where the total simulation time is divided into time-windows, each with possibly different number of samples. However, this type of approach brings a new challenge since rise-time oscillations appear at time-window interfaces. A solution to the rise-time oscillations phenomenon is proposed in [8] for networks involving frequency-dependent lines/cables; however, such phenomenon is further accentuated in switched networks, which is not addressed in [8]. In [10], interpolators are applied to the samples at the interface of two subsequent time-windows to smooth rise-time oscillations.

In [11], the FD Norton-type models for both single- and three-phase PV systems are presented. Partitioned-time simulation is utilized in [11] accompanied by selection of high-energy frequencies to speed up simulations. The rise-time effect, attributed to half-value convergence of the inverse NLT and manifesting as rise-time numerical oscillations, is mentioned in [11] but not fully addressed.

The TD-based averaged-value modeling (AVM) technique, also known as dynamic phasors, overcomes the computational burden issue by averaging instantaneous variables within a sliding time-window; however, at the expenses of omitting high-frequency ripple [12], [13], [14], [15], [16]. DC/DC simple converters, such as boost and series resonant converters, are modeled via AVM in [12] and [13], where only DC and fundamental switching frequencies are accounted for. The effective averaging of switching dynamics is demonstrated in [12] and [13]. In [16], a parametric PV-cell model, based on the averaging concept, is proposed for long-term analyses. A comprehensive overview of AVM for representing static switching converters is provided in [14]. Despite not reproducing high-frequency dynamics, AVM provides reasonable results with expected system dynamics’ behavior when the AC part of the network is sufficiently stiff [15]. The damping or filtering effect provided