# The Averaged-value Model of a Flexible Power Electronics Based Substation in Hybrid AC/DC Distribution Systems

Hong Liu, Zhanfeng Deng, Xialin Li, Member, IEEE, Li Guo, Member, IEEE, Di Huang, Shouqiang Fu, Xiangyu Chen, and Chengshan Wang, Senior Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—The concept of a flexible power electronics substation (FPES) was first applied in the Zhangbei DC distribution network demonstration project. As a multi-port power electronics transformer (PET) with different AC and DC voltage levels, the FPES has adopted a novel topology integrating modular multilevel converter (MMC) and four-winding medium frequency transformer (FWMFT) based multiport DC-DC converter, which can significantly reduce capacitance in each sub-module (SM) of a MMC and also save space and cost. In this paper, in order to accelerate speed of electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulations of FPES based hybrid AC/DC distribution systems, an averaged-value model (AVM) is proposed for efficient and accurate representation of FPES. Assume that all SM capacitor voltages are perfectly balanced in the MMC, then the MMC behavior can be modeled using controlled voltage sources based on modulation voltages from control systems. In terms of the averaged current transfer characteristics among the windings of the FWMFT, we consider that all multiport DC-DC converters are controlled with the same dynamics, a lumped averaged model using controlled current and voltage sources has been developed for these four-port DC-DC converters connected to the upper or lower arms of the MMC. The presented FPES AVM model has been tested and validated by comparison with a detailed IGBT-based EMT model. Results show that the AVM is significantly more efficient while maintaining its accuracy in an EMT simulation.

**Index Terms**—Averaged-value model (AVM), flexible power electronics substation (FPES), four-winding medium frequency transformer (FWMFT), hybrid AC/DC distribution systems, modular multilevel converter (MMC), multiport DC-DC converter.

Manuscript received April 21, 2020; revised June 23, 2020; accepted July 31, 2020. Date of online publication October 6, 2020; date of current version November 17, 2020. This work was supported in part by the National Nature Science Foundation of China (51977142).

H. Liu, X. Li (corresponding author, e-mail: xialinlee@tju.edu.cn; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1852-7823), L. Guo, and C. Wang are with the Key Laboratory of Smart Grid of Ministry of Education, Tianjin University, Tianjin 300072, China.
Z. F. Deng is with the State Key Laboratory of Advanced Power Transmission Technology, Global Energy Interconnection Research Institute, Beijing 100220, China.
S. Fu and X. Chen are with the State Grid Jibei Electric Power Economic Research Institute, Beijing 100038, China; X. Chen is also with State Key Laboratory of Reliability and Intelligence of Electrical Equipment, Hebei University of Technology, Tianjin, China.
D. Huang is with the Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau of Guangdong Grid Co., Ltd., Guangzhou 510620, China.
DOI: 10.17775/CSEEJPES.2020.01340

## I. INTRODUCTION

HYBRID AC and DC distribution network has become a crucial trend for future intelligent distribution networks, with large-scale integration of renewable power generations (RPGs) (i.e. PV, wind), increasing DC loads, and diversified power supply requirements [1], [2]. To achieve more flexible, reliable, and efficient network architectures and power-flow scheduling and control among different AC and DC voltage levels, concepts of so-called multiport energy routers (ERs), solid state transformers (SSTs), and power electronic transformers (PETs) [3]–[5], have been proposed and developed. In the traditional cascaded topology of MMC based multiport PETs, a low DC voltage port is primarily obtained by a modular high or medium frequency DC transformer [6], which is interlinked directly to the medium DC link. It should be noted that massive capacitance in each sub-module (SM) of the MMC is necessary to reduce power ripples of the MMC arms with fundamental and double frequency. In contrast, a novel topology named flexible power electronics substation (FPES) [7] integrating MMC and four-winding medium frequency transformer (FWMFT) based multiport DC-DC converter was first applied in the Zhangbei DC distribution network demonstration project [8], [9], which significantly reduced capacitance in each SM of the MMC and also saved space and cost, due to the power ripples with fundamental and double frequency across the MMC arms in three phases, which can be balanced and offset.

For FPES based hybrid AC and DC distribution systems, electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulations can help to test and verify the dynamic characteristics of selected main circuits, control and protection systems. As is known, FPES with large numbers of SMs and FWMFT based four-port DC-DC converters, and a switching model with a solution time step of 1∼2 µs can provide high simulation accuracy, however, it will result in a heavy computational burden [10]. Thus, how to realize efficient electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulations of FPES has become the greatest motivation of this paper.

In order to reduce the computational time of the MMC without sacrificing accuracy, the Thévenin equivalent circuit for the SM and multivalve of MMC was first proposed in [11]. With this model, capacitor voltage dynamics and balancing of the SMs in each arm of the MMC can be considered as managed in the detailed switching model. An accelerated model of MMC was proposed in [12], based on Kirchhoff’s Law and the nodal analysis method. Furthermore, assuming the switches of MMC to be ideal and using the A-stable backward Ruler method (BEM) to ca