## Abstract
The reconfigurable-hardware real-time power system simulator (RH-RTS) is a field-programmable gate-array (FPGA)-based real-time simulator that is developed based on the concept of simulators hardware reconfigurability (i.e., to change the underlying hardware architecture of the simulator to accommodate various power system topologies). The uniqueness of the RH-RTS is the underlying hardware architecture. The RH-RTS has a massively parallel customized hardware architecture that is tailored to the solution of the mathematical model of the power system under consideration. The RH-RTS enables the simulation of large power systems with a computation-time per simulation time-step in the range of tens of nanoseconds. Not only does the RH-RTS provide a means for real-time operation (e.g., for closed-loop testing of physical control/protection platforms in hardware-in-the-loop (HIL) configuration), it also provides a means for faster-than-real-time operation (e.g., for statistical switching studies). This paper provides validation and evaluation of the performance of the RH-RTS. This paper presents a case study involving the simulation of a power system in both real time and faster than real time. The computation time per simulation time-step is as low as 24 ns, for realistic size systems, which is, by far, the lowest computation time reported in the technical literature.

### Index Terms
Electromagnetic transients, field-programmable gate array (FPGA), modeling, network equivalents, real-time simulation.

*Manuscript received August 06, 2011; revised December 02, 2011 and March 25, 2012; accepted May 25, 2012. Paper no. TPWRD-00663-2011.*
*The authors are with the Electrical and Computer Engineering Department, Energy Systems Group, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON M5S 3G4 Canada (e-mail: mahmatar@ieee.org; iravani@ecf.utoronto.ca).*
*Color versions of one or more of the figures in this paper are available online at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.*
*Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TPWRD.2012.2229723*

## I. INTRODUCTION
THE PHENOMENA of electromagnetic transients (EMTs) in power systems include frequencies from dc to multi-MHz and occur due to sudden changes in the power system conditions (e.g., faults and switching events). Although the EMTs last only for short periods of time, that is, limited to a few cycles, it, however, is vitally important to conduct EMT studies to obtain detailed information about the system behavior during EMTs. Such studies are also required to accurately evaluate the control/protection systems performance when the system is subject to abnormal operating conditions due to EMTs [1].

The fact that EMT phenomena subject the power system to excessive stresses, precludes their investigation and evaluation experimentally. In addition, due to the size and complexity of power systems, it is almost impossible to have analytical models that are suitable for the closed-form analysis of EMTs of interconnected power systems. Hence, digital time-domain simulation, either offline or real time, is the only practical approach to conduct EMT studies. Moreover, a physical control/protection platform also has to be tested and its functionalities verified prior to installation and commissioning since prudent utility practice forbids experimentations with the power system. Thus, a real-time simulator is needed to test physical control/protection platforms in realistic conditions similar to the actual power system operating conditions. Real-time simulators are also useful in conducting statistical switching studies, requiring large number of simulation test cases, as it substantially reduces the total run-time.

Production grade real-time simulators do exist and have been widely used for EMT studies and for testing physical control/protection platforms. However, the existing real-time simulators have limitations on the minimum time-step size, the frequency bandwidth of the simulation results, and the accuracy of the adopted models. The bandwidth of the existing real-time simulators is limited to a relatively narrow frequency range [2], approximately up to 10 kHz. The growing need for a wider frequency bandwidth inherently requires not only a smaller simulation time-step but also more accurate models. On the other hand, improving modeling accuracy based on the use of more elaborate apparatus models increases the simulator computational time within each simulation time-step. These contradictory requirements necessitate a compromise between accuracy and computation performance for real-time simulators [3], [4] and are the main impetus for further R&D in the field of real-time simulation.

The reason behind these limitations is mainly the relatively large computational time due to the utilization of hardware architectures based on multiprocessors or computer clusters as the computational engine. Currently, the typical range for simulation time-step is between 10 and 80 s, depending on model complexity and hardware availability. Recently, some real-time simulators adopt multirate simulation with time-steps in the range of tens of microseconds for the majority of the system being simulated and hundreds of nanoseconds to few microseconds for a small fraction of the system; usually having power electronic converters [5]–[7].