# Three-phase Adaptive Auto-Reclosing for Single Outgoing Line of Wind Farm Based on Active Detection from STATCOM
Wang Ting, Student Member, IEEE, Song Guobing, Senior Member, IEEE, and Kazmi Sayed Tassawar Hussain

**Abstract—** Difficulties in identification of the fault property, for a fault on a single outgoing line of windfarm, arise due to rapid decrease in the electromagnetic energy of the transmission line after the tripping of three-phase breaker. An active solution to such problem is proposed based on low current injection from parallel connected static synchronous compensator (STATCOM). In the reclose sequence after wind turbines’ cut off, the circuit breaker near wind farm and grid-connected circuit breaker of STATCOM are reclosed first. Therefore, based on selected switching operation of power electronic devices of STATCOM converter, a short duration discharge of dc capacitance to the faulty ac line is suggested. Correlation coefficient of resulting current waveform is utilized as an identification criterion for fault presence. Finally, a three-phase adaptive auto-reclosing scheme is proposed for the single outgoing line of 110 kV wind farm. The effectiveness and robustness of the proposed scheme are verified by PSCAD/EMTDC simulation.

**Index Terms—** Active injection, fault identification, STATCOM, three-phase adaptive auto-reclosing, wind farm

## I. INTRODUCTION
Renewable energy, especially wind power, is growing rapidly in recent years and is considered an actual clean energy alternative to the conventional energy sources such as oil, gas, and coal [1]. The ratings of wind farms are also increasing and suitable wind locations close to load areas are mostly occupied [2]. Therefore, onshore wind farms are usually located far away from grid connection point. Centralized reactive power compensation is often carried out at the point of common coupling (PCC), since the reactive power compensation and voltage stability are critical requirements in wind energy integration systems. Reactive power compensation equipment based on the flexible ac transmission system (FACTS) has attracted wide attention due to fast, continuous and smooth characteristics, such as static synchronous compensator (STATCOM) and static var compensator (SVC) [3].

Many wind farms in China, although inland but located far away from load centers, are connected to main power grid through the 110 kV single overhead line (OHL) [4]. Three-phase auto-reclosing is utilized for voltages up to 110 kV in China, since circuit breakers (CBs) cannot be operated separately for lower voltages. Auto-reclosing operation has been widely applied in conventional ac systems, which works for permanent and temporary faults without any fault discrimination and a fixed dead time is employed, i.e., time delay is required prior to reclose [5]. With the increase of wind power capacity, fast reclosing is an effective operation to improve the stability and synchronism of power systems.

Fault characteristics and dynamic response of wind generation are quite different from the conventional synchronous generators. Higher penetration of intermittent wind has a significant impact on the correct operation of protection and control equipment due to its non-linear fault characteristics. In the conventional scenario, consisting of thermal and hydroelectric generations, reclosing operation utilizes the line voltage levels at synchronous machine side and synchronous states in the case of smaller resources. In the renewable energy integration scenario, after tripping the three-phase CB of the single outgoing line, wind machines lose phase support and auto-reclosing conditions are changed due to the loss of smaller resources. In such situation, the operation characteristics of wind power should be taken into account [6]-[7]. Therefore, in practical operation, the transmission line is first energized followed by the synchronization of wind farm with the power system. A series of reclosing modes have been proposed in [8]-[10] combined with the characteristics of wind generation. But these reclosing schemes only solve the start failure of reclosing, and do not solve the problem of secondary impacts on the system side due to reclosing on permanent faults. Specifically, circuit reclosing causes arcing ground, which can result in a reclose failure if secondary arc could not extinct in

*This work was supported by the Study on Fault Coupling Characteristics*