## Three-stage implicit integration for large time-step size electromagnetic transient simulation with shifted frequency-based modeling
Shilin Gao a, b, *, Ying Chen a, b, Yankan Song a, b, Shaowei Huang a, b
a Department of Electrical Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China
b Sichuan Energy Internet Research Institute, Tsinghua University, Chengdu 610000, China

**Keywords:** Electromagnetic transient simulation, Numerical integration, Large time-step size, Runge-Kutta, Runge–Kutta method, SF-based simulation, Shifted frequency analysis, Sustained numerical oscillations, 3S-SDIRK

**Abstract:** To improve the computational efficiency of electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation, the shifted frequency (SF)-based EMT (SFEMT) simulation is proposed in the literature, and large time-step size can be adopted in the SFEMT simulation. In the existing SFEMT simulation, the trapezoidal (TR) method is used for numerical integration. Sustained oscillations will appear in the simulation due to the use of the TR method. To overcome this problem, this paper applies the three-stage singly diagonally implicit Runge–Kutta (3S-SDIRK) method to the numerical integration of SFEMT simulation. First, the SFEMT modeling is briefly reviewed, and the 3S-SDIRK method is introduced. Then, the numerical integration of SFEMT simulation using 3S-SDIRK is elaborated detailedly, and the merits of the 3S-SDIRK-based simulation are analyzed by comparing with the TR, 2S-DIRK and TR-BDF2-based simulations. Numerical results show that the SFEMT simulation using 3S-SDIRK for integration is free from numerical oscillation and is accurate and efficient.

## 1. Introduction
ELECTROMAGNETIC transients program (EMTP)-type simulators are widely used for studying the transient behavior of power systems in the processes of design, operation and control [1–3]. In the simulation of ac power transmission and distribution systems with the EMTP-type simulators, an upper limit of the time-step size is given because a 50 Hz or 60 Hz ac carrier is presented [4–6]. Thus, a small time-step is needed for electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation, leading to low computational efficiency. To improve the efficiency, it is necessary to investigate the EMT simulation algorithm with a large time-step size.

By using the theory of dynamic phasors, which is rooted in the generalized averaged modeling of power electronics [7], a large-time-step EMT simulation algorithm for power system was proposed and significantly accelerated the computation [8, 9]. However, in non-stationary conditions, the dynamic phasor-based simulation may be inaccurate [10]. Meanwhile, a closely related simulation algorithm, i.e., the shifted frequency-based EMT (SFEMT) simulation algorithm, was proposed in [11–13]. This algorithm finds a solution to the power system differential equations in the shifted frequency domain. The associated analytic signal of the original real signal is first formulated, which only has a positive frequency spectrum. Then, the analytic envelope is obtained by shifting the fundamental frequency of the analytic signal from 50 or 60 Hz to zero [14–16]. According to the sampling theory, a much larger time-step size can be selected, resulting in considerable savings in computational time. Many researchers followed and continued to work on the SFEMT simulation, further promoting the method [17–19].

In the existing works on SFEMT simulation, the trapezoidal (TR) method is used for numerical integration, because the TR method is a one-step integration method with an accuracy of second-order and A-stability. However, the TR method will produce sustained numerical oscillation for a sudden change of a variable, even if the critical damping adjustment is implemented in the simulation [20]. To cope with the numerical oscillations, the inherently “oscillation-free” two-stage diagonally implicit Runge–Kutta (2S-DIRK) method [21,22] and TR-BDF2 [23,24] method may be utilized for the numerical integration of SFEMT simulation. The problem is that the 2S-DIRK and TR-BDF2-based simulations need much more computational time than the TR-based one since they include two stages in each time-step. Thus, an inherently “oscillation-free” and efficient numerical integration method is preferred for the SFEMT simulation.

To address this, this paper proposes an SFEMT simulation algorithm using the three-stage singly DIRK (3S-SDIRK) method for integration. It is L-stable and has an accuracy of third-order [25,26]. Thanks to the better accuracy, the 3S-SDRIK method can be implemented with a much larger step-size compared with the TR, 2S-DIRK and TR-BDF2 methods. In this case, the efficiency of the 3S-SDIRK can be guaranteed. In a word, the proposed 3S-SDIRK-based simulation is “oscillation-free” under the premise of guaranteeing high accuracy and efficiency.

The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section II reviews the SF analysis and the SFEMT modeling of power system dynamics. In Section III, the 3S-SDIRK integration scheme is

### (1) Discretization
In literature, the TR method is widely used for the discretization and numerical integration of SFEMT simulation. Discretizing (5) by the TR method, the difference equations are obtained:
$$i_E(n+1) = \frac{h u_E(n+1)}{2L + j\omega_c h L} + \frac{h u_E(n)}{2L + j\omega_c h L} + \frac{2 - j\omega_c h}{2 + j\omega_c h} i_E(n) \quad (6)$$