# Time-Domain Implementation of Damping Factor White-Box Transformer Model for Inclusion in EMT Simulation Programs
**Bjørn Gustavsen**, Fellow, IEEE, **César Martin**, and **Álvaro Portillo**, Senior Member, IEEE

**Abstract—** White-box detailed transformer models are used by manufacturers for predicting internal overvoltages in transformer windings during the lightning impulse test. One such model is the d-factor model, which is based on a lumped-parameter description based on winding discretization with the inclusion of losses via an empirical, frequency-dependent damping factor. This paper shows a procedure for direct inclusion of the d-factor model in electromagnetic transients simulation programs for use in general studies of network overvoltages. Proper utilization of the model’s diagonal structure is utilized in combination with real-valued arithmetic for maximum speed in transient simulations, with optional initialization from sinusoidal steady-state conditions. The model can be used both as a terminal equivalent and for calculation of internal voltages with use of an augmented input data set. The method is demonstrated for a single-phase three-winding transformer that is applied in a simulation study of transient resonant voltage buildup in the tertiary winding.

**Index Terms—** Transformer, white box model, damping factor, EMT, simulation, overvoltages.

## I. INTRODUCTION
TRANSIENT overvoltages in the power system are one of the root causes of transformer dielectric failures [1]. The analysis of such situations requires the use of a proper electromagnetic transients simulation software that can represent all relevant components with adequate accuracy, including their frequency-dependent effects. In the case of transformers, the available models in existing Electromagnetic Transients (EMT) programs lack in good transformer models for simulation of high-frequency transients. Typically, the user has to make use of a standard 50/60 Hz model with addition of a few lumped capacitive elements to capture the high frequency effects. Such model can at best represent the first (lowest) resonance frequency in a transformer, and it does not give any information about the internal overvoltages [2]. Several works have proposed the use of wide-band transformer models based on frequency sweep measurements of the transformer’s terminal admittance, followed by a model extraction step [3]. Such models can often give excellent accuracy for the transformer’s terminal behavior. One serious limitation is that the voltage inside the windings cannot be calculated, with the exception of taps in regulating winding.

In order to simulate internal overvoltages, it has therefore been proposed to make use of the white-box detailed transformer models [4]–[10] whose topology and parameters are calculated based on detailed knowledge of the transformer design. This model category is being used by the manufacturers to predict the internal overvoltages during the lightning impulse test in factory. For use in general network studies, these models are usually not directly compatible with EMT programs and some adaptation may therefore be necessary.

Reference [10] introduced one particular white-box model that makes use of a state-space model on diagonal form with an empirical damping function. In this d-factor model, the voltages on terminals are input and currents on the terminals are output, defining an admittance representation with respect to external terminals. In addition, the model gives out voltage on the internal nodes by providing additional rows in the output matrix of the state-space model. The model was in [10] included in an EMT simulation environment by calculating frequency domain samples for a terminal admittance matrix and voltage transfer function matrix, both which were subjected to model extraction by rational fitting. These steps of rational fitting are however inconvenient as there is a computational effort involved with possible loss of accuracy.

In the current work we show how to directly include the d-factor model [10] in an EMT environment known as EMTP-RV, without the need for rational fitting. The implementation considers the reading of input data from a text file in a predefined format being recommended in the ongoing CIGRE JWG A2/C4.52. The interfacing of the model with the electrical system is achieved via a Norton equivalent with the vector of history current sources updated from a subroutine (DLL code) which in each time step calculates the current source for the next time step using the ODEs of the state-space model that

*Manuscript received December 18, 2018; revised February 13, 2019; accepted February 16, 2019. Date of publication March 1, 2019; date of current version March 24, 2020. This work was supported by the consortium participants of the SINTEF-led project “ProTrafo” (project no. 207160/E20). Paper no. TPWRD-01520-2018. (Corresponding author: Bjørn Gustavsen.)*  
*B. Gustavsen is with SINTEF Energy Research, N-7465 Trondheim, Norway (e-mail: bjorn.gustavsen@sintef.no).*  
*C. Martin is with RTE–Réseau Transport d’Electricité, CNER, 92 932 Paris La Défense CEDEX (e-mail: cesar.martin@rte-france.com).*  
*Á. Portillo is an Independent Consultant in Transformers, Brenda 5920, 11400, Montevideo, Uruguay (e-mail: acport18@gmail.com).*  
*Color versions of one or more of the figures in this paper are available online at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.*  
*Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TPWRD.2019.2902447*