# Time-Domain Coupling Model for Nonparallel Frequency-Dependent Overhead Multiconductor Transmission Lines Above Lossy Ground

**Manuja Gunawardana**, Student Member, IEEE, **Ashley Ng**, and **Behzad Kordi**, Senior Member, IEEE

**Abstract**—Expansion of power grids has resulted in the construction of multiple transmission lines within constrained spaces inevitably making them nonuniform in nature. Existing transmission line models available in electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulators are based on classical multiconductor transmission line (MTL) theory with the assumption that the transmission lines are infinitely long and have uniform cross-sectional dimensions. This paper develops a time-domain model, namely dispersive scattered field transmission line (DSFTL) model, for multiconductor dispersive nonuniform overhead transmission lines above lossy, frequency-dependent ground. The proposed model which consists of closed-form equations in the time-domain has been implemented using a modified finite-difference time-domain (MFDTD) algorithm and integrated into an EMT simulator (PSCAD/EMTDC). Results have been compared with and verified by those obtained using a full-wave approach and measured data available in the literature. Simulations of nonuniform structures that include nonlinear components (such as breakers) have also been carried out under fault conditions.

**Index Terms**—Transmission line modelling, electromagnetic transient analysis, electromagnetic scattering, time-domain analysis, non-uniform lines.

*Manuscript received May 25, 2021; revised August 18, 2021; accepted October 6, 2021. Date of publication October 19, 2021; date of current version July 25, 2022. The work was supported by the Faculty of Graduate Studies, University of Manitoba and Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC). Paper no. TPWRD-00773-2021. (Corresponding author: Behzad Kordi.)*

*The authors are with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba R3T5V6, Canada (e-mail: sdmsgunawardana@gmail.com; nga34@myumanitoba.ca; behzad.kordi@umanitoba.ca).*

Color versions of one or more figures in this article are available at https://doi.org/10.1109/TPWRD.2021.3121194.  
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TPWRD.2021.3121194

## I. INTRODUCTION

OVERHEAD transmission lines serve as the primary method for transmitting electrical energy over large distances. Overvoltage transients may originate in transmission lines due to disturbances such as lightning or switching and reach other components in a power system [1]–[3]. Consequently, electrical insulation breakdown and equipment failure may occur if countermeasures are not sufficiently taken. Therefore, accurate electromagnetic transient (EMT) modelling of transmission lines is an essential requirement in designing and analysing power systems.

With the expansion of power networks and due to spacial constraints, transmission lines that come into close proximity of each other have become an inevitable occurrence. This has resulted in nonuniformities such as non-parallel lines in close proximity, ultra high voltage (UHV) lines crossing above lower voltage lines or communication lines, and lines undergoing sharp bends to be increasingly prevalent in transmission line networks. During these close encounters both transient and power-frequency voltages on one line have been found causing induced interference on other nearby lines [4]–[7].

Electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulators, employed to analyze the transient behavior of power networks, model transmission lines using the multiconductor transmission line (MTL) theory [8]–[10]. Frequency-dependent ground losses are typically incorporated into these models using Carson-Pollaczek formula [11]. However, these models are only applicable to infinitely long uniform transmission lines, which is typically not fulfilled in physical implementation [8]. Therefore, there is a need to incorporate the effects of nonuniformities of finite length transmission lines in EMT simulators in-order to accurately model the transient behavior of modern transmission networks [12], [13].

Non-uniform structures can be accurately modeled using full-wave techniques but this is often associated with high computational costs and typically requires iterative methods to obtain solutions [13]–[15]. This makes them not very suitable for circuit-based time-domain simulations. Electromagnetic scattering models for single-conductor nonuniform transmission lines over perfectly conducting ground have been developed by Tkachenko et al. in [16], [17]. A time-domain model for multiconductor frequency-independent lines utilizing finite-element-method (FEM) has been introduced in [18]. However, this model involves a numerical integration at each time step. A frequency-dependent non-uniform model based on an iterative and adaptive perturbation technique is proposed in [19]. In [20], the per-unit-length (PUL) parameters for lossy and nonuniform multiconductor transmission lines have been formulated assuming the currents are parallel at every cross section, and therefore, the model is valid for only small angles of inclination.

Finite-difference methods have been used to model lossy nonuniform transmission lines in [21]–[23]. In these models losses are assumed to be frequency-independent and the nonuniformity is conductors being exponentially and linearly tapered or