## Time-domain modeling of a subsea buried cable

Felipe Camara $^a$, Antonio C.S. Lima $^{b,*}$, Maria Teresa Correia de Barros $^c$, Filipe M. Faria da Silva $^d$, Claus L. Bak $^d$

$^a$ DNV, Oslo, Norway  
$^b$ Federal University of Rio de Janeiro (UFRJ), Rio de Janeiro, Brazil  
$^c$ University of Lisbon (ULisboa), Lisbon, Portugal  
$^d$ Aalborg University, Aalborg, Denmark  

✩ This project has received funding from the European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under the Marie Skłodowska-Curie grant agreement No 101031088.  
✩✩ This study was financed in part by the Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior - Brasil (CAPES), Finance Code 001. It also was partially supported by INERGE (Instituto Nacional de Energia Elétrica), Brazil, and CNPq (Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico), Brazil.  
∗ Corresponding author.  
E-mail addresses: fcn@energy.aau.dk (F. Camara), acsl@coppe.ufrj.br (A.C.S. Lima), teresa.correiadebarros@tecnico.ulisboa.pt (M.T. Correia de Barros), ffs@energy.aau.dk (F.M. Faria da Silva), clb@energy.aau.dk (C.L. Bak).

### Abstract

Traditionally, electromagnetic transient (EMT) programs in the time domain cannot deal with submarine cables buried in the seabed, as available routines demand one medium to be lossless to derive per unit length impedance and admittance matrices. This paper proposes a suitable approach for modeling of HVDC submarine cables, i.e., single-pole, single-core cables with thick armors, in EMT-type programs to allow an accurate representation of the seabed buried cables. The expressions for evaluating pul parameters are based on a quasi-transverse electromagnetic (quasi-TEM) approximation of a full-wave formulation. Two distinct approaches are considered for time-domain modeling. The first one is based on the Method of Characteristics (MoC) and relies on the main structure of the so-called universal line model (ULM), harnessing its implementation in an EMT program. The second approach is based on the rational fitting of the cable nodal admittance matrix using the Folded Line Equivalent (FLE). The time responses of both approaches are compared with the one obtained using the Numerical Laplace Transform (NLT), and an excellent agreement was found.

**Keywords:** Submarine cables, Transient analysis, Time-domain modeling, HVDC

## 1. Introduction

There has been a growing interest in developing and analyzing submarine power systems. In the recent past, the focus has been on power interconnections [1] and submarine pumping of oil systems based on voltage-source inverters [2]. The deployment of offshore wind farms [3] has drawn a renewed interest in the usage of submarine cables and the concept of energy islands [4] being designed in some countries, e.g., Denmark and Singapore. The latter has announced an intention to build a very long submarine transmission system, over 3700 km, to harvest energy from a solar farm in Australia [5].

In recent years, there has been an expressive effort to improve the available routines for the calculation of the internal parameters of cables to include twisting, proximity, and skin effects and a more detailed representation of the armor [6–11]. Unfortunately, with a few exceptions, most of the offshore wind farm studies present some rather crude cable models [12] and this might be related to the fact that a cable buried in the seabed represents a challenge as both media are lossy, and thick armor is involved.

Submarine cables buried in the seabed may share some commonalities with underground facilities, some features are unique to such systems as specific bonding schemes, construction issues, surrounding medium, and trenching [13]. For instance, TenneT buried a cable more than 5 m below the seabed to connect a new offshore wind farm [14]. The majority of commercial offshore wind power plants that are operational to date has been installed at a maximum water depth of 30 m with an average of 17 m [15], while offshore oil exploitation units operate in water depths greater than 1000 m [16]. Even for the average offshore windfarm scenario, and considering a burial depth of 1 m, the electromagnetic field decay is such that the external field generated by a cable buried below the seabed will fail to reach the water surface (see Appendix for details). Thus, there is no need for a 3-layer configuration. Nevertheless, one has to deal with a structure where both media are lossy, affecting mainly the behavior of the return impedance and admittance per unit of length. This scenario is distinct from those found in embedded cable parameters routines in EMT (Electromagnetic Transient) programs such as PSCAD, EMTP, or even ATP, where one medium is assumed lossless.

Previously, a seabed buried cable was presented in [17] based on a quasi-TEM (Transverse Electromagnetic) simplification of a full-wave formulation. In Appendix, we detail the procedure for obtaining external media impedance and admittance expressions.

For an accurate representation of $Z_{in}$, in HVDC or HVAC cable, a Finite-Element Method (FEM) would be preferred for the inclusion of helical effects due to conductor twist