## Tower-foot grounding model for EMT programs based on transmission line theory and Marti’s model

**Rafael Alipio** a, 1, *, **Alberto De Conti** b, **Felipe Vasconcellos** c, **Fernando Moreira** c, **Naiara Duarte** a, **José Martí** d

a Electromagnetic Compatibility Laboratory, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Lausanne (EPFL), 1015, Switzerland  
b Department of Electrical Engineering, Federal University of Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil  
c Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Federal University of Bahia, Salvador, BA, Brazil  
d Electrical and Computer Engineering Department, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada  

* Corresponding author. E-mail address: rafael.alipio@cefetmg.br (R. Alipio).  
1 on leave from the Federal Center of Technological Education of Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil.

**Keywords:** Lightning transients, Transmission lines, EMT programs, Grounding, Transmission line theory

**Abstract:** This paper proposes a tower-foot grounding system model compatible with EMT programs which might be useful for the simulation of lightning transients in overhead lines. The proposed model is based on the solution of the telegrapher’s equations and the application of the classical Marti’s transmission line model. The model is implemented in the Alternative Transients Program (ATP) and validated considering a benchmark electromagnetic model. Its accuracy is evaluated and shown both in terms of the simulated ground potential rise (GPR) and line overvoltages developed through the insulator strings due to lightning currents. Finally, the model accuracy is also demonstrated in terms of the line backflashover outage rate.

## 1. Introduction

For most overhead power transmission lines (TLs), lightning is the primary cause of unscheduled interruptions [1]. The assessment of the lightning performance of overhead TLs involves the calculation of the minimum lightning currents causing insulation flashover for strikes to phase conductors (shielding failure flashover) and to towers and shield wires (backflashover) [2]. Although the tower-foot grounding system does not affect the occurrence of shielding failure flashover, it does affect the backflashover by markedly changing the amplitude and steepness of the resulting overvoltages across line insulators [3]. Typically, the assessment of the lightning performance of transmission lines is carried out using time-domain transient simulators [4, 5]. Such platforms, however, do not have specific models for the tower-foot grounding system. Thus, in most cases, the grounding system is normally modeled simply as a lumped resistance. This approach disregards the frequency-dependent behavior of grounding input impedance which might be important in lightning transients [6]. An alternative and more accurate approach is the determination of the frequency-dependent response of the tower-foot grounding externally using an electromagnetic field approach and then including it in the time-domain simulator through a pole-residue representation [7,8]. This second approach, however, is more laborious and time consuming. A third approach, which balances accuracy and computational effort, is the representation of the grounding electrodes as a buried transmission line. This approach, however, is generally used only for representing simple arrangements such as single horizontal or vertical grounding electrodes [9,10]. In [11], a pi-equivalent circuit model was proposed to represent general grounding system arrangements of transmission lines, based on an accurate circuit model and an optimization procedure to determine the pi-circuit parameters. Recently, the tower-foot grounding modeling through a lumped resistance with the same value as the so-called grounding impulse impedance was also suggested [3]. In this paper, a tower-foot grounding model based on the solution of the telegrapher’s equations is proposed and implemented in the Alternative Transients Program (ATP) using the classical Marti’s transmission line model [12]. The accuracy of the proposed model is evaluated using an electromagnetic model as a benchmark. The obtained results serve as a basis for implementing an electrical grounding component in time-domain simulators which might benefit the industry, allowing more accurate simulations of lightning overvoltages in overhead TLs. Thus, the main novelty of this paper consists in the use of a stable model

## 2. Case study

In the developments of this work, a case study corresponding to a typical 138-kV transmission line is considered. Fig. 1 shows the tower geometry, taken from [8], which has one ACSR conductor per phase (LINNET) and one 3/8′′ EHS shield wire. In the analysis of the lightning performance of overhead TLs, the response to first return stroke currents associated with downward flashes is the most relevant aspect [5]. In the simulation results presented in this paper, the current waveform shown in Fig. 2 is assumed. This waveform is modeled as the sum of Heidler’s functions, as detailed in [13], and clo