Received 19 July 2022, accepted 2 August 2022, date of publication 16 August 2022, date of current version 22 August 2022.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/ACCESS.2022.3198677

# Transient Analysis on Multiphase Transmission Line Above Lossy Ground Combining Vector Fitting Technique in ATP Tool

**JAIMIS SAJID LEON COLQUI**$^1$, **ANDERSON RICARDO JUSTO DE ARAÚJO**$^1$, **TAINÁ FERNANDA GARBELIM PASCOALATO**$^2$, **SÉRGIO KUROKAWA**$^2$, (Member, IEEE), AND **JOSÉ PISSOLATO FILHO**$^1$

$^1$ School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, State University of Campinas-UNICAMP, Campinas 13083-852, Brazil
$^2$ Department of Electrical Engineering, São Paulo State University-UNESP, Ilha Solteira 15385-000, Brazil

**Corresponding author:** Jaimis Sajid Leon Colqui (jaimis.leon@unesp.br)

This work was supported in part by the Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior (CAPES) under Grant 001; and in part by the São Paulo Research Foundation (FAPESP) under Grant 2019/01396-1, Grant 2020/10141-4, and Grant 2021/06157-5.

## ABSTRACT
Several approaches to calculate the ground-return impedance and admittance matrices are proposed in the literature. Carson’s approach assumes a lossy ground modeled by frequency-independent conductivity where displacement currents and non-perfectly conducting ground effects are neglected. However, Nakagawa’s approach considers both characteristics and also the frequency-dependent (FD) soil electrical parameters that can be incorporated into his formulations. This paper investigates the influence of Nakagawa’s approach and Carson’s approach on the transient responses using the ATP tool. First, the performances of the Bode’s method and Vector Fitting (VF) technique for approximating the characteristic impedance $Z_c(s)$ and propagation $H(s)$ are also investigated for the JMarti’s line model. Then, lightning-induced voltages (LIVs) developed for a lightning striking at the shield wire of an overhead transmission line (OHTL) on a high-resistive FD soil are investigated. Results demonstrated a much higher accuracy using the VF for approximating $Z_c(s)$ and $H(s)$ than Bode’s method. Transient voltages on the OHTL calculated with Nakagawa’s approach showed notable differences compared to those obtained with Carson’s approach. The voltage peaks are reduced when Nakagawa’s approach is utilized, especially when transmission lines are located on high-resistive soils.

## INDEX TERMS
Electromagnetic transient analysis, transmission lines, lightning-induced voltages, rational fitting techniques, frequency-dependent soil electrical parameters.

## I. INTRODUCTION
Computation of the transient responses on OHTLs depends on the adequate models to represent these components under disturbances in power systems [1]. In this context, the longitudinal impedance $Z$ and transversal admittance $Y$ matrices must take into account the frequency dependence on the soil electrical parameters and electric field penetration effect in the soil, especially when involving the lightning strikes on overhead power lines [2], [3], [4]. Besides that, the lightning-induced voltages (LIVs) may cause to temporary or permanent faults leading to outages in power lines [5].

JMarti’s line model [6] is incorporated in the Electromagnetic Transient Programs (EMTP)-type programs, such as ATP tool [7], the frequency-dependent (FD) characteristic impedance $Z_c$ and wave propagation $H$ matrices are approximated by rational functions using Bode’s method. This method uses real poles and zeros to synthesize the $Z_c$ and $H$ matrices which the zeros are enforced to be in left size of the complex plane. However, another fitting tool is the Vector Fitting (VF) technique developed by Gustavsen and Semlyen in [8] which presents a better accuracy in the rational approximation of the FD responses. The VF synthesizes a FD response into a rational function based on its poles and residues [8]. As detailed by Bañuelos et al. in [9], the absolute deviation in the FD $Z_c$ and $H$ curves with VF technique are much lower than those computed using the Bode’s fitting method. In the EMTP-type programs, the ground-return impedance matrix $Z_g$ is done by using Carson’s approach [10]. In this approach, he assumes that the lossy ground is modeled by frequency-independent conductivity where displacement currents are neglected (the relative permittivity is assumed to the same of the air) [10]. He also disregarded the non-perfectly conducting ground effect which is computed by the ground-return admittance [3], [10]. However, a more realistic approach must consider the frequency dependence of the soil electrical parameters (resistivity and permittivity) especially when high-resistive soils and high-frequency content phenomena (lightning discharges) are involved in the simulations [3]. Many authors have been dedicating their efforts to measure the FD ground parameters (resistivity and relative permittivity) with different methodologies in the last years such as [11], [12], [13], and [14]. In their works, the FD ground models consider the soil as tool for transient analysis. Transient responses are computed for a OHTL subjected to lightning striking at the shield wire where the Carson’s approach and Nakagawa’s approach are used to compute the impedance and admittance matrices. The functions $Z_c(s)$ and $H(s)$ are calculated for a frequency range of 0.01 Hz up to 2 MHz. The OHTL is located on three different grounds whose low-frequency resistivities ($\rho_0$) of 1000, 3000 and 10,000 $\Omega\cdot\text{m}$ are used assuming that the soil is modeled by its frequency-dependent electrical parameters. It is shown that VF method presents a much higher accuracy when used to fit the $Z_c(s)$ and $H(s)$. Results demonstrated that a significant difference with Nakagawa’s approach on the LIVs is obtained in comparison with those computed by Carson’s approach. Results indicated that FD soil electrical parameters must be considered for a precise transient analysis on OHTL generated for lightning strikes. As a contribution, this work provides an easy-to-implement model that can be integrated in any ATP tool that implements Nakagawa’s approach for the ground-return impedance and admittance to compute the transients directly in the time domain. This model does no