# Graphics Processing Unit Based Acceleration of Electromagnetic Transients Simulation
**Jayanta K. Debnath**, Student Member, IEEE, **Aniruddha M. Gole**, Fellow, IEEE, and **Wai-Keung Fung**, Senior Member, IEEE

*J.K. Debnath and A.M. Gole are with the University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB, Canada R3T 5V6, Email: Aniruddha.Gole@umanitoba.ca.*
*W.K. Fung is with the Robert Gordon University, Aberdeen, AB10 7GJ, United Kingdom.*

**Abstract**—This paper presents a novel approach to speedup EMT simulation, using GPU-based computing. This paper extends earlier published works in the area, by exploiting additional parallelism inside EMT simulation. A 2D-parallel matrix-vector multiplication is used that is faster than previous 1D-methods. Also this paper implements a GPU-specific sparsity technique to further speed up the simulations, as the available CPU-based sparsity techniques are not suitable for GPUs. Additionally, as an extension to previous works, this paper demonstrates modelling of a power electronic subsystem. The efficacy of the approach is demonstrated using two different scalable test systems. A low granularity system, i.e. one with a large cluster of busses connected to others with a few transmission lines is considered, as is also a high granularity where a small cluster of busses is connected to other clusters thereby requiring more interconnecting transmission lines. Computation times for GPU-based computing are compared with the computation times for sequential implementations on the CPU. The paper shows two surprising differences of GPU simulation in comparison with CPU simulation. Firstly, the inclusion of sparsity only makes minor reductions in the GPU-based simulation time. Secondly excessive granularity, even though it appears to increase the number of parallel computable subsystems, significantly slows down the GPU-based simulation.

**Index Terms**—EMT simulation, Power systems simulation, Power system modelling, GPU-computing, CUDA-C programming, parallel algorithms.

## I. INTRODUCTION
Electromagnetic transients (EMT) simulation is commonly used to study fast transients in power systems such as lightning induced transients, switching transients including transients from power electronic switches, and so on [1], [2], [3]. Many attempts have been made to speed up EMT simulation, such as: parallel implementation of the EMT algorithm [4], use of the multi area Thevenin equivalents (MATE) algorithm [5], multi-processor based parallel EMT simulation [6], etc. These approaches have improved the performance of EMT simulations. The approach presented in this paper, uses Graphics Processing Units (GPUs) [7], [8], as a high performance and potentially cost effective alternative [9], [10], [11], [12] for EMT simulation of large power systems. The authors of this paper first reported GPU-based EMT simulation in 2011 [9] and further developments of the work were reported in [10], [11]. Recently Zhou et al. [13] reported on another approach for GPU-based EMT simulation, known as Node Mapping Structure (NMS). The approach presented in this paper is to speedup EMT simulation using GPU-based computing and is a potential alternative to the NMS algorithm.

Our current paper extends our previous work with the implementation of additional parallelization techniques to further accelerate the GPU-based EMT simulation. In this paper the EMT algorithm is explored and algorithmic steps for power systems with various equipment that may run in parallel are identified. In particular, this paper includes the following new aspects:
- Implementation of matrix-vector multiplication using parallel threads deployed in 2D directions.
- Implementation of parallel computations for transmission lines on the GPU and an optimized GPU-based algorithm for synchronous generators.
- Implementation of power electronic switching on the GPU platform and investigation of its effect on the performance gain.
- Implementation of sparsity based algorithm on special hardware, such as a GPU with primitive processing cores.
- Investigation of the effect of test-system granularity on the performance gain of the simulation, i.e., the tradeoff between performance gains for test systems with a larger subsystem size versus test systems with a smaller subsystem size but having more interconnecting transmission lines.

In the sections to follow, this paper discusses GPU-computing and the sequential EMT models of various equipment in a power system and the parallelization techniques used to implement them on the GPU platform. It then discusses the selection of appropriate test systems. Total computation times for the GPU based simulation of various test cases are presented and compared with the total clock times for sequential (CPU based) simulations. Finally, the performance gains for GPU based simulations of various types of systems are presented.

## II. OVERVIEW OF GPU-COMPUTING
GPUs have many primitive processing cores on board and are capable of performing general purpose computations in parallel. The GPU accelerates computationally intensive applications by operating in a Single Instruction Multiple Thread (SIMT) mode [7], [14], [15]. The SIMT is an extension of the commonly known Single Instruction Multiple Data (SIMD) mode of parallelism [14]. SIMD describes the execution of an instruction on various data, whereas SIMT introduces a