# Unified High-Speed EMT Equivalent and Implementation Method of MMCs with Single-Port Submodules

Jianzhong Xu, Member, IEEE, Yuchen Zhao, Chengyong Zhao, Senior Member, IEEE, Hui Ding, Member, IEEE

**Abstract—** This paper proposes a unified high-speed electromagnetic transient (EMT) equivalent and implementation method for modular multilevel converter (MMC) with arbitrary single-port submodule (SM) structures. The proposed method interacts with the users by the incidence matrix, branch admittance matrix and the column vector of the current sources as input, then a nodal admittance matrix is automatically generated for each individual SM and the internal node information of the SMs are transferred to the interfacing nodes. Hence the internal nodes are eliminated without obtaining the complicated analytical solutions, the reduced-order equivalent circuit of each SM is obtained and all the SMs within each arm are cascaded into one ultimate Thévenin equivalent. At the end of each time step, the EMT solver updates all the previously eliminated internal node information so that nothing is lost under steady and transient states. The proposed approach is validated by EMT models of an enhanced double half-bridge sub-module (D-HBSM) based MMC-HVDC system on PSCAD/EMTDC.

**Index Terms—** Modular multilevel converter, electromagnetic transient (EMT), single-port sub-modules, Norton and Thévenin equivalents, double half- bridge sub-module (D-HBSM).

## I. INTRODUCTION

Because of low loss, minimized harmonics and easy scalability, modular multilevel converter (MMC) based high voltage direct current (HVDC) transmission will be the trend of future DC transmission systems [1]-[2]. E.g., the point-to-point HVDC links in Europe and Zhangbei DC grid in China are both under construction and will use the MMC topology. The rapid development of DC grids has also brought a lot of issues such as the DC fault blocking.

Recently, a variety of new MMC topologies with DC fault blocking capabilities are being considered as alternatives to the high cost of DC circuit breakers [3]-[6]. Some of the newly proposed MMC topologies may have the capability to balance the internal capacitor voltages without sorting algorithms. These topologies will include both single-port and multi-port MMC converters with complicated SM topologies [7]. In addition, renewable energy based large scale MMC-HVDC grids, with multiple MMC converters tend to make the electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulations far less efficient. Besides the off-line simulations, the real time simulations require EMT equivalent models of emerging user-defined MMC topologies [8]-[12]. Therefore, there is definite need to develop unified algorithms and implementation methods general for all the emerging new MMC topologies.

With respect to the existing EMT equivalent algorithms of MMCs, although the simplified averaged-value models (AVMs) [13], [14] and the classical continuous model [15] are time-efficient, the internal capacitor voltage and current information are lost, so they do not belong to the detailed equivalent model (EM) scope of this paper and they are used more in system and converter level simulations.

The detailed EMs [16]-[23] can faithfully reproduce the transient behaviors of the detailed models (DMs). Being the world’s first, reference [16] proposed the high-speed equivalent model of MMC. It started a new research area and both the half- and full-bridge MMC models developed by the authors in [16] are still used on PSCAD/EMTDC. References [17]-[19] improved the computational efficiency of the models developed in [16] by using different integration methods and simplified linear time complexity sorting algorithms. Although the accelerated model (AM) of MMC in [20] is general to some extent, it is essentially an enhanced DM with plenty of fully-detailed components and thus has a lower EMT simulation efficiency in DC grids and real time simulations.

Reference [21] proposed an equivalent MMC model with specified structure; although its universality is limited, similar implementation method of blocking modes can be used in this paper. The EMs proposed in [22]-[23] are similar in principle, which represent an MMC arm with a few ideal diodes and controlled voltage sources. These two models have high efficiency on modeling half-bridge and full-bridge SMs based MMCs and can be used for some other classical SM topologies. However, the models in [22]-[23] are hard to extend to SM topologies which has two capacitors in each SM and the

*This work was supported in part by National Key R&D Program of China under grant 2018YFB0904600 and in part by National Natural Science Foundation of China (51607065).*