# Unified MANA-based load-flow for multi-frequency hybrid AC/DC multi-microgrids

**Nasim Rashidirad** $^{a,*}$, **Jean Mahseredjian** $^{b}$, **Ilhan Kocar** $^{c}$, **U. Karaagac** $^{c}$

$^{a}$ Hydro-Quebec/IREQ, Varennes, QC, Canada  
$^{b}$ Polytechnique Montréal, Montréal, H3T 1J4, QC Canada  
$^{c}$ Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong Kong  

*Corresponding author. E-mail address: rashidirad.nasim@hydroquebec.com (N. Rashidirad).*

**Keywords:** Coordinated droop controller, Load-flow, MANA formulation, Multi-frequency, Multi-microgrid

**Abstract:** In islanded hybrid AC/DC multi-microgrids (MMGs), interconnected AC microgrids (ACMGs) can operate with their own frequency and power sharing strategy. Hence, to formulate the load-flow problem of multi-frequency islanded MMGs, conventional single-frequency load-flow approaches are not applicable. To this aim, in this paper a novel unified load-flow framework for AC/DC hybrid MMGs, is proposed. The principles of the proposed method are based on the modified augmented nodal analysis (MANA) formulation, which can be utilized for an arbitrary number of interconnected multiphase MGs. Then, an unbalanced MMG, which includes two ACMGs, one DC MG (DCMG), and two interlink converters (ICs), is used to verify the validity of the proposed MANA-based formulation.

## 1. Introduction

Direct integration of renewables, due to their intermittent nature, can raise several problems in reliability, power quality and energy efficiency of power grids. MGs can be considered as a solution [1,2]. The most basic duty of MGs is to maintain the economic balance of supply and demand by energy management systems. However, due to the uncertainties in supply and demand sides, the balancing task becomes challenging [3]. An interesting solution is based on the integration of MGs to create multi-microgrid (MMGs), which can address the uncertainties, optimize power sharing, and improve system resiliency [3–5]. In fact, MMGs, due to their high number of MGs, are able to satisfy their power demand by their own distributed generators (DGs) [5]. They are also able to exhibit high self-healing features, in presence of faults or outages [6]. To best integrate multiple MGs, understanding the benefits, needs, and challenges of networking the MGs is an important topic of research and development [7,8].

Load-flow solutions are used to find the steady-state conditions of MMGs for design, control, and operation needs. It is possible to find fundamental frequency and harmonic steady-state solutions. The fundamental frequency load-flow solution using frequency domain equations is a fast approach for establishing the initial network conditions with various constraints related to conventional generators and converters. The aim of this paper is on fundamental frequency load-flow solutions of MMGs, that are essential for the initialization [9] of the simulation of electromagnetic transients. Once the fast load-flow solution is found, the operational conditions are established, and it can be used to start the time-domain simulations and support various other initialization methods (see [10] and its references, and [11]) for converters, controls and nonlinearities, to force the fastest establishment of full harmonic steady-state conditions.

The currently existing load-flow studies of MMGs can be divided into two groups. The first group is for MGs connected to the main grid as a cluster [12], in which there is not any challenge in the load-flow solution. The second group is for AC/DC hybrid MGs (HMGs) [13], in which there is only one islanded AC subgrid, and hence only one frequency is considered as a load-flow variable. In the case of MMGs, each islanded AC MG, can have its own frequency and power sharing strategy, and depending on the operation modes of interlinking converters ICs, there is coupling among their load-flow variables. Hence, proposing MMG load-flow solutions, which can model multiple interconnected islanded MGs, is an important contribution. For HMGs, there are two approaches for load-flow solutions: sequential and unified. For the sequential approaches [14], the load-flow solutions of all HMG subsystems, including ICs, AC and DC subgrids are found separately, and then additional loops are utilized to achieve convergence. Hence, their implementation is complicated for MMGs, which have a high number of subsystems. While in unified approaches [15], the entire system is modeled and solved simultaneously. Hence, the system formulation is of great importance to decrease computational complexity. To the best of our knowledge, so far, for interconnected islanded MMGs, no specific load-flow solution has been proposed in the literature. To fill this research gap, in this paper, a unified multiphase load-flow solution, which is based on modified augmented nodal analysis (MANA) formulation [16–19] is presented for multi-frequency islanded MMGs. MANA modeling is component-based, and each component has its own variables and constraints. Hence, it is conceptually much simpler to assemble MANA equations as compared to traditional mismatch equations. Moreover, MANA formulation can directly account for circuit-based models such as

### 2.1. ACMG formulation

Each ACMG has its own MANA-based nodal and component constraints [16–19]. For ACMG nodal constraints, the AC-side currents of ICs need to be considered. Hence, the corresponding Jacobian terms are included in $J_{ACMG}$ and $J_{ACMG-IC}$, which respectively represent derivative terms of AC constraints, with respect to $\Delta X_{ACMG}$ and $\Delta X_{IC}$. The ACMG variables are defined as:

$$ \Delta X_{ACMG_i} = \begin{bmatrix} \Delta V_{ni} \\ \Delta I_{Li} \\ \Delta I_{Gi} \end{bmatrix} $$