# Universal Decoupled Equivalent Circuit Models of Solid-State Transformer for Accelerated EMT-Type Simulation

**Hengyu Li**, Graduate Student Member, IEEE, **Walid Hatahet**, Graduate Student Member, IEEE, **Jared J. Paull**, Graduate Student Member, IEEE, **Jintao Han**, **Liwei Wang**, Senior Member, IEEE, and **Wei Li**, Member, IEEE

*Hengyu Li, Walid Hatahet, Jared J. Paull, and Liwei Wang are with the School of Engineering, The University of British Columbia Okanagan, Kelowna, BC V1V 1V7, Canada (e-mail: liwei.wang@ubc.ca).*
*Jintao Han and Wei Li are with OPAL-RT Technologies, Montreal, QC H3K 1G6, Canada (e-mail: wei.li@opal-rt.com).*

*Received 13 October 2024; revised 25 April 2025; accepted 22 June 2025. Date of publication 30 June 2025; date of current version 25 September 2025. This work was supported by the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council (NSERC) of Canada. Paper no. TPWRD-01557-2024. (Corresponding author: Liwei Wang.)*
*Color versions of one or more figures in this article are available at https://doi.org/10.1109/TPWRD.2025.3584585.*
*Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TPWRD.2025.3584585*

**Abstract**—Multilevel Multimodule Solid-State Transformer (SST) is emerging as a key technology interfacing MVAC and LVAC systems via chainlink AC-DC converter and Dual Active Bridge (DAB) DC-DC converters. The SST has the advantages of high modularity, bidirectional power transfer, galvanic isolation, and high-frequency power conversion. Fast control prototyping of the SST requires numerically efficient and accurate equivalent circuit models for Electromagnetic Transient (EMT) simulation. This paper proposes universal decoupled equivalent circuit models using switching function to simplify the power converter circuits. Various types of power converters including full-bridge converter, DAB DC-DC converter, and three-phase 3-level converters can be universally modeled by the proposed equivalent circuits in both deblocking and blocking modes. The use of switching function and DC-link decoupling strategy in equivalent circuit models achieves constant G-matrix and significantly reduced node number in the EMT solution. A switching interpolation technique is proposed for the SST to accurately represent switching events when a large simulation time step is used. Case studies have demonstrated that the proposed equivalent circuit models significantly improve the numerical efficiency, compared to the conventional detailed model and variable G-matrix detailed equivalent model.

**Index Terms**—Electromagnetic transient simulation, detailed equivalent model, switching-function-based average value model, solid-state transformer, switching interpolation.

## I. INTRODUCTION

Solid State Transformer (SST) is a key enabler that interfaces Medium-Voltage (MV) AC/DC with Low-Voltage (LV) AC/DC distribution systems for renewable energy integration, distributed energy storage, electric vehicle charging infrastructure, and AC/DC loads. The SST has the merits of high efficiency, high-power density, bidirectional power flow capability, galvanic isolation, and high voltage conversion ratio [1].

The SST, performing AC-AC power conversion, has typically three stages, i.e., modular multilevel AC-DC converter in Stage I, high-frequency Dual Active Bridge (DAB) DC-DC converters [2], [3], [4] in Stage II, and 2-/3-level DC-AC converter in Stage III. One of the most popular SST configurations has multiple power modules series-connected on the primary MVDC side and parallel-connected on the secondary LVDC side, known as Input-Series-Output-Parallel (ISOP) configuration [5], [6]. A voltage balancing control [6] is employed in the ISOP-SST to regulate MVDC capacitor voltages of Full-Bridge Submodules (FBSMs) for stable input voltages of the primary-sides of DAB modules.

Numerically efficient and accurate Electromagnetic Transient (EMT) models of multilevel multimodule converters play an essential part in converter design and fast control prototyping. The conventional Detailed Model (DM), composed of many discrete circuit components, imposes dramatic computational burdens due to the large number of switches from the converter Submodules (SMs). Consequently, the development of EMT-type Detailed Equivalent Models (DEMs) [7], [8], [9], [10], [11], [12], [13] has attracted much attention in modeling modular multilevel converters (MMC). However, compared to MMC modeling, the SST modeling imposes special challenges because the DAB submodules in SSTs have higher circuit complexity, higher switching frequency, interleaving operations of submodules, and complicated circuit coupling between Stages I and II of the SSTs. The DEMs of the SST were proposed in [14], [15], [16], [30], [31] for accelerated EMT simulation, which reduces the SST’s internal node number by using Thevenin’s or Norton’s equivalent circuits. These prior-art works in [14], [15], [16], [30], [31] represent converter submodules using either Resistive Switch Model (RSM) [14], [15], [16], [31] of two-value ON/OFF resistors or L/C-Associated Discrete Circuit (L/C-ADC) [30] to model each semiconductor switch. Thus, the converter DEMs have different equivalent circuit topologies and need to be individually derived for various types of submodules of the SSTs. Although the DEM in [14], [15], [16], [31] improves the simulation efficiency compared to the DM, the system conductance (G)-matrix in EMT solution is time-variant due to the use of two-value resistor to represent the ON/OFF states of semiconductor switches. Frequent refactorization of the G-matrix limits further improvement of simulation efficiency. The conventional L/C-ADC model of SST [30] achieves constant G matrix but causes fictitious volt