# Using TACS Functions Within EMTP to Teach Protective Relaying Fundamentals

**Richard W. Wall**  
Department of Electrical Engineering  
University of Idaho  
Boise, ID  

**Brian K. Johnson**  
Department of Electrical Engineering  
University of Idaho  
Moscow, ID  

**Abstract** - The purpose of this discussion is to provide an educational tool for investigating relaying concepts by modeling digital relays using TACS functions within EMTP in a closed-loop manner. Various elements of digital protection systems are identified and organized to generate a systematic approach to modeling the actual hardware of relay systems. Discussion is limited to conventional relaying systems that monitor the vitality of the 60 Hz voltages and/or currents. TACS functions for transport delay and pulse generators are used to model dynamics associated with analog to digital conversion and sampling systems. DSP algorithms convert a sequence of sampled data into a sequence of values for magnitude and phase components. A simple example of a time overcurrent relay is developed to demonstrate the techniques to implement relay control in EMTP with TACS and illustrates the kinds of phenomena that can be studied using these techniques.

**Keywords:** Relays, DSP, Digital filtering, EMTP, TACS, Power Engineering Education, Continuing Education

## I. Introduction

Power system protective relaying systems are striving to meet the demands of systems which are ever increasing in complexity. These protection systems require computer based digital relays to quickly, accurately, and reliably identify faults. High-speed digital relays must make decisions while the power system is still in transition. Understanding the operation and performance of microprocessor based relays requires new engineering tools. The challenge educators face when preparing the next generation of protection engineers and relay designers is to teach both the analysis tools and the fundamental concepts of very complex relay systems and devices[1,2].

This paper is intended to provide an educational tool for the university class room as well as for industry short courses teaching relaying fundamentals using hypothetical relay models. The approach for developing a model of a relay using TACS functions within EMTP is to integrate a number of functional building blocks which implement the protection system dynamics. The following discussion assumes the reader has a basic understanding of EMTP and TACS.

Although not easy to learn, EMTP and TACS have the advantage of being mature simulation tools which many power engineering students have or will use. EMTP has been developed to efficiently model multi-phase distributed parameter transmission lines and many power system apparatus. Modeling these elements is vastly more difficult using electronic component simulation programs. Since many students already know SPICE, learning EMTP is not a significant factor. There are several versions of EMTP available to educational institutions at essentially the costs to create and ship the program and documentation to the institution. The costs vary considerably between the versions. Presently available versions of EMTP include the DCG, ATP, and EMTDC. There are several short courses over a wide cost range and users groups available to aid instructors in learning to use EMTP.

With the introduction of graphical user interfaces for EMTP (for example, ATPDRAW or PSCAD) knowledge of the subtleties of EMTP is less important. This is especially true if the EMTP data file is assembled by the instructor with comments explaining the items they should change (i.e. transformer ratio, relay trip setting). MATLAB, DADISP, and other mathematics based software can be used to further post-process data files generated by EMTP but cannot be currently used in closed-loop with EMTP.

For conventional protection systems, the most important function that the relay performs is to determine the vitality of the 60 Hz power signal. This is usually accomplished by monitoring the magnitude and, in some cases, phase of one or more power line voltages and/or currents. At the moment a fault or a switching action occurs, transients are generated which can persist as long as several milliseconds. For a relay to make a reliable decision, the 60 Hz component must be filtered from the other power system signals present during this transient period. Since digital filtering plays such a key role in digital relaying, a basic understanding of digital filtering or digital signal processing (DSP) theory is also necessary.

Texts are available to support courses in digital relaying [3,4]. Supplemental texts on the fundamentals of digital filtering are useful to help students understand the factors which control the filters performance such as response time, noise rejection, and computational requirements [5,6,11]. The discussion below examines some of these issues and (7). The requirements for each block in Fig. 1 will be discussed in greater detail to identify important features implemented in those functional blocks.

### II. NETWORK SIMULATION

Blocks (1) and (9) of Fig. 1 make up the power system electrical network models for the simulation. Switching