Received 19 July 2022, accepted 16 August 2022, date of publication 25 August 2022, date of current version 2 September 2022.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/ACCESS.2022.3201503

# Using the Exact Equivalent $\pi$-Circuit of Transmission Lines for Electromagnetic Transient Simulations in the Time Domain
JUAN P. ROBLES BALESTERO$^{1,2}$, JAIMIS SAJID LEON COLQUI$^{3}$, AND SÉRGIO KUROKAWA$^{1}$, (Member, IEEE)
$^1$ Department of Electrical Engineering, São Paulo State University—UNESP, Ilha Solteira 15385-000, Brazil
$^2$ Department of Electrical Engineering, Federal Institute of São Paulo—IFSP, Votuporanga 15503-110, Brazil
$^3$ School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, State University of Campinas—UNICAMP, Campinas 13083-852, Brazil

Corresponding author: Juan P. Robles Balestero (juanbalestero@gmail.com)
This work was supported in part by the Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior (CAPES) under Grant 001, and in part by the São Paulo Research Foundation (FAPESP) under Grant 2021/06157-5.

## ABSTRACT
This work presents a transmission line model for simulating electromagnetic transients directly in the time domain. For this purpose, the exact equivalent $\pi$-circuit is used, which represents the line taking into account its distributed and frequency-dependent parameters. The admittances that constitute the exact equivalent $\pi$-circuit are approximated by rational functions using the vector fitting technique. Then, for each admittance, an electrical circuit is synthesized, consisting of an association of discrete elements (resistors, inductors, and capacitors) aiming at modeling the transmission line, thus allowing its use in any circuit simulation software and the eventual connection of nonlinear elements. From the simulation results, it is reasonable to state that the proposed model is a feasible representation, which aggregates the same features of the exact equivalent $\pi$-circuit directly in the time domain, not only in steady state, but mainly during transients and also without the need for using convolutions, as well as inverse Laplace or Fourier transforms.

**INDEX TERMS** Electromagnetic transients, transmission line model, time-domain analysis, vector fitting.

## I. INTRODUCTION
Transmission line (TL) models used in the simulation of electromagnetic transients have better accuracy when taking into account the frequency-dependent effects, that is, when the calculation of the longitudinal parameters of the line is obtained considering the skin effect and soil influence on the conductors. Such parameters must be considered as distributed along the line length, which make the currents and voltages to behave like waves and, in such case, they can be obtained from the solution of the line hyperbolic equations [1]. Thus, such equations allow considering the distributed nature of the line parameters and their dependence on the frequency. The exact equivalent $\pi$-circuit of the TL directly represents the line hyperbolic equations and, for this reason, the term "exact" is used to name this model because it performs such a representation without the use of approximations [2].

In the literature, the exact equivalent $\pi$-model is widely used for the analysis of transients in the frequency domain [3]. However, in [4] it is evident that in the time domain it is only possible to use it in a steady state, whereas the solution is obtained for a single frequency, both at the fundamental and harmonic frequencies. This restriction makes its use unfeasible for the simulation of electromagnetic transients because the line response covers a wide frequency range during this such a period [5].

In [6], it is shown that when considering short or medium length lines, the exact equivalent $\pi$-circuit tends to the so-called "nominal $\pi$-circuit" of the transmission line, which can be implemented using lumped elements (resistors, inductors, and capacitors), therefore allowing the time-domain transient analysis. In this case, for longer lines, a large number of cascaded nominal $\pi$-circuits are employed to accurately calculate the transient responses, whose frequency ranges are on the order of kilohertz. Although this method is attractive and easy to implement, its disadvantage is the inclusion of erroneous peaks that distort transient responses, especially around their peak values, called "spurious oscillations" [7]. These oscillations are caused by the nominal $\pi$-circuit cascade that represents the TL, but they do not represent the real value of the electromagnetic transients. To reduce the spurious oscillations, in [8] damping resistances are added in parallel with the longitudinal impedance of each section of the nominal $\pi$-circuit. Later on in [9] and [10], a methodology was presented to better adjust the damping resistance values in order to reduce the transient response distortion.

Bode’s method. In [20], the authors present a proposal to improve the accuracy of the model, replacing Bode’s method with the vector fitting technique [21]. The ULM circumvents some limitations of JMarti’s model because the solution is directly in the phase domain. This model is also available in Electromagnetic Transient (EMT) programs, and recently in [22] the authors present a technique that allows the implementation of ULM in ATP-EMTP. Although they are quite accurate, both JMarti’s model and ULM depend mainly on the previous calculation of the time delay $\tau$, which is performed numerically and can affect the quality of the rational.

**FIGURE 1.** Single-phase overhead TL in the frequency domain.

Since the nominal $\pi$-circuit in its original form does not take into account the frequency effect, in order to improve the accuracy of the results using this model, the authors in [11] present a proposal that includes the frequency dependence on the longitudinal parameters of the line. This procedure is performed from the rational approximation of such parameters that are synthesized by an equivalent electric circuit. Despite the improvements introduced in this model, it still uses a relevant approximation, as it considers that a small line segment is represented by discrete parameters. Therefore, it does not consider that the line parameters are distributed along its length [12].

A technique that allows the time-dom