# Wave Function and Multiscale Modeling of MMC-HVdc System for Wide-Frequency Transient Simulation
Hua Ye, Member, IEEE, Feng Gao, Member, IEEE, Wei Pei, Member, IEEE, and Li Kong, Member, IEEE

**Abstract**— The detailed modeling of power electronic (PE) devices poses challenging problems to an efficient transient simulation of large-scale PE-dominated power systems. As PE paradigm, a multiscale modeling methodology of the modular multilevel converter (MMC) for simulating diverse transients from low-frequency oscillations up to high-frequency switching events in an MMC high-voltage direct current (HVdc) system is developed, implemented, and validated. The novelty lies in the creation of a wave propagation function (WPF) that describes the MMC submodule (SM) transient behavior, and then, the SM Fourier series-based shifted-frequency phasor (SFP) is developed to accelerate the computation speed of the system-level dynamics. These efforts serve as the basis for multiscale modeling of the MMC where a multiple-frequency shifting is achieved. By implementing a seamless model interface with the control systems, the multiscale modeling is applicable to an MMC-HVdc transmission system. The multiscale model is validated through case studies that cover dc fault, MMC internal fault, power oscillations, and wind power fluctuations. The computational accuracy and efficiency of the model are verified through a comparison of the results with those from the full electromagnetic transient (EMT) model.

**Index Terms**— Analytic signal, dynamic phasor (DP), electromagnetic transients (EMTs), high-voltage direct current (HVdc), modular multilevel converter (MMC), multiscale modeling, power system modeling, power system simulation, wave propagation.

Manuscript received July 12, 2020; revised September 22, 2020 and December 4, 2020; accepted December 28, 2020. Date of publication January 21, 2021; date of current version October 1, 2021. This work was supported in part by the National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant 51707183 and in part by the Key Front Science Project of the Chinese Academy of Sciences under Grant QYZDY-SSW-JSC025. Recommended for publication by Associate Editor Lennart Harnefors. (Corresponding author: Feng Gao.)

Hua Ye, Wei Pei, and Li Kong are with the Institute of Electrical Engineering, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100190, China, and also with the School of Electronic, Electrical and Communication Engineering, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, China (e-mail: yehua@mail.iee.ac.cn; peiwei@mail.iee.ac.cn; kongli@mail.iee.ac.cn).

Feng Gao is with the Energy Internet Research Institute, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China (e-mail: fgao@tsinghua.edu.cn).

## I. INTRODUCTION
MODERN electric power systems are characterized by the increasing penetration of power electronic (PE) devices due to applications of the PE-interfaced wind and photovoltaic power integrations, flexible alternating current transmission system (FACTS), and high-voltage direct current (HVdc) system installations [1]. With more prominent PE advancements, the modular multilevel converter (MMC) is widely investigated and employed in realistic voltage-source converter-based HVdc projects [2], [3], for example, the Zhangbei $\pm 500$-kV four-terminal MMC-HVdc grid in China [3]. Practically, any MMC-HVdc system requires rigorous and efficient modeling for electromagnetic/electromechanical transient studies to guarantee its secure and stable operations [4]. The electromagnetic transients (EMTs) are fast, with time scales from microseconds to several seconds, and are caused by, for example, PE switching, short-circuits. On the other hand, the electromechanical transients are caused, for example, by system-level instability problems, whose time scales are from seconds to several minutes. The well-known quasi-steady-state models [5]–[8] for electromechanical transient studies do not track PE fast-changing snapshots, inherently limited for the usage in modeling MMC-HVdc systems. This is because, as affected by high-frequency PE switching events, power system-level dynamic studies, such as stability analysis, are currently extended to a broader range of frequencies to the EMTs [9], i.e., to cover multiple time-scale transients with a wide frequency range.

The EMT program (EMTP) type modeling methodology is respected for its accurate representation of high-frequency transients and is applied in establishing MMC EMT models. The MMC submodule (SM) device-level model in [10], for example, describes electronic circuit physical phenomenon, while the MMC SM switching-function model (SFM) was presented in [11] to study the PE switching events. These models use small time-step sizes in the order of microseconds or even nanoseconds. To accelerate the EMT simulation, the detailed equivalent model (DEM) based on binary resistors was developed in [12] where individual SMs on one arm are assembled. The DEM is still inefficient in terms of computational speed for representing an MMC with a large number of SMs due to the time-varying equivalence [13]. The averaged-value models (AVMs) were addressed to track fundamental frequency dynamics [14], [15], but they neglect the switching transients of individual SMs. Therefore, when considering internal SM behavior and giving an efficient representation of large-scale HVdc system, the MMC-HVdc system-level EMT speed-up simulation, i.e., multiscale transient simulation, needs to be supported by further research.

To modulate wide-frequency transients aiming at high accuracy and efficiency within the same simulation run, the frequency shifting modeling methodology was proposed in [16] and [17]. In the EMTP solution environment, the shifted-frequency analysis (SFA) [17] was addressed to per- processed