# Wideband model based on constant transformation matrix and rational Krylov fitting
Emmanuel Francois $^a$, Ilhan Kocar $^{b,*}$, Jean Mahseredjian $^a$  
$^a$ Department of Electrical Engineering, Polytechnique Montreal, Montreal, H3T 1J4, QC Canada  
$^b$ Department of Electrical Engineering, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong Kong SAR  

**Keywords:** Electromagnetic transients, Line constants, Cable constants, Rational Krylov approximation, Universal line model (ULM), Wideband model (WB)  

**Abstract:** This paper analyzes the use of fitting techniques based on partial fraction expansions in the fitting of modal transmission line functions and the assumption of constant and real transformation matrix (constant $T$) in the transformation of modal functions into phase domain. The focus is on the fitting of the propagation function due to its complexity compared to the characteristic admittance function. It is demonstrated for the first time that using a constant $T$ can intrinsically violate the passivity of the transmission line system depending on the choice of frequency point for assigning the constant $T$. Consequently, the final rational model violates passivity at certain frequency intervals. Second contribution is the evaluation of the fitting performance with a new solution strategy based on the recently introduced rational Krylov fitting (RKF). The case studies suggest that RKF results in accurate and less order models compared to the vector fitting (VF) algorithm which is the de facto method in electromagnetic transient-type models. Finally, the fitting accuracy of the legacy constant $T$ model based on Bode fitting is presented in the phase frame giving a clear picture of its poor fitting performance compared to modern methods and explaining its inaccuracies in the time domain.  

## 1. Introduction  
The wideband (WB) line model in this paper refers to the implementation of the Universal Line Model (ULM) [1] and Frequency Dependent Cable Model (FDCM) [2]. These models identify frequency dependent transmission line functions, i.e., propagation $H$ and characteristic admittance $Y_c$ functions, in the phase domain using a common format of rational functions in the complex domain. Although the final model is in the phase domain, the internal steps in the parametric identification of the models include some computations in the modal domain which basically refers to the eigenvalues of $H$ and $Y_c$. For the implementation of the WB model in the time domain, the rational approximations of line functions are converted into discrete state space forms using the exact solution assuming that the input is piecewise linear [3]. Two step interpolation [4] to minimize the magnification of integration errors [5] is applied and the option of DC correction is available to help improving the accuracy and numerical stability of the model in some cases [6]. The original implementation of the ULM model used trapezoidal method for the discretization of state space forms [1]. This is still the case for legendary line models [8].  

This paper integrates the option of using a constant transformation matrix (constant $T$) in the fitting of line functions, particularly $H$, into the WB model. Once the eigenvalues of line functions are computed and fitted to rational functions, they are simply transformed into the phase domain using a real and constant transformation matrix. This approach is like the approach used in the legendary frequency dependent (FD) line model [7,8] but differs in three ways from the perspective of implementation: 1) The fitting techniques employed perform fitting in the complex domain using partial fraction expansions (PFEs). 2) The time domain implementation uses the numerically robust time domain solver of the WB model. 3) It is possible to fit $Y_c$ directly in the phase domain and investigate whether this has an impact on the accuracy of transient waveforms.  

The main advantage of the constant $T$ wideband model (CTWB) is that it can handle transmission lines with large number of conductors since the propagation modes are decoupled. It is important to note that the time domain code of the WB model can also be adjusted to perform discrete computations in the modal domain and apply the real transformation matrix afterwards to find the phase domain voltages and currents very efficiently, i.e., with a smaller number of recursive convolutions. This is numerically equivalent to apply constant $T$ in the frequency domain and perform time domain convolutions in the phase domain. On the other hand, this paper is an investigative paper in the use of different fitting techniques and integration methods when the constant $T$ option is adopted. The presented implementation is a quick method for these purposes allowing also understanding the impact of using constant $T$ in the fitting of $Y_c$.  

An important finding disclosed in this paper is the observation that applying a constant $T$ can change $H$ in the phase domain in such a way that the intrinsic passivity of the system can be lost at certain frequency intervals. That is, the nodal admittance matrix of a line generated using $H$ and $Y_c$ can have negative eigenvalues at certain frequency samples.  

**Fig. 1.** Multi-conductor line segment of length $L$.  

This, on the other hand, depends on the frequency sample used to assign the constant $T$. In other words, not all the constant $T$ choices will result in passivity violations.