# Z-Tool: Frequency-domain characterization of EMT models for small-signal stability analysis ⋆
Francisco Javier Cifuentes Garcia $^{a,b,*}$, Jef Beerten $^{a,b}$

$^a$ Department of Electrical Engineering (ESAT-ELECTA), KU Leuven, 3000, Leuven, Belgium
$^b$ Etch by EnergyVille, 8310, Genk, Belgium

**Keywords:** AC/DC power systems, Admittance measurement, Black-box, Multi-terminal scan, MMC HVDC

**Abstract:** This paper presents a novel frequency-domain identification tool based on Electromagnetic Transient (EMT) simulations: Z-tool. This is the first open source program offering a versatile automated scan and state-of-the-art small-signal analysis of multi-terminal AC, DC and AC/DC power systems. The approach is introduced with an emphasis on implementation aspects and its use for stability assessment. Furthermore, the stability analysis capabilities are illustrated in a subsynchronous oscillation screening study. In addition, refinements to decrease the runtime, such as multi-frequency excitation and the exploitation of symmetry properties, are described and demonstrated for different systems. The identification error is time-step-dependent due to the nature of EMT routines. Moreover, the trade-off between significant time-savings, achieved by adopting the proposed developments, and loss of accuracy are quantified for basic power system components offering a useful guideline for their applicability and parameter selection.

⋆ Paper submitted to the International Conference on Power Systems Transients (IPST2025) in Guadalajara, Mexico, June 8–12, 2025.
* Corresponding author. E-mail address: franciscojavier.cifuentesgarcia@kuleuven.be (F.J. Cifuentes Garcia).
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.epsr.2025.112405
Received 6 January 2025; Received in revised form 5 March 2025; Accepted 17 October 2025
Available online 1 November 2025
0378-7796/© 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.

## 1. Introduction
To ensure stable integration of renewable energy sources (RES) and High Voltage Direct Current (HVDC) systems interfaced via power electronic (PE) converters, detailed representation of converter dynamics is crucial, as these could negatively interact across a wider frequency range than legacy power system equipment, as demonstrated in numerous actual incidents [1]. Moreover, small-signal stability is a prerequisite for transient or large-signal stability, since it corresponds to the majority of the operational time, and most real-life interaction issues have a small-signal origin [1]. To this end, frame transformations are typically employed to describe the system dynamics by time-invariant continuous-time non-linear differential equations in a state-space (SS) model, which is then linearized for the application of modal analysis [2]. However, state-space approximations of practical converter controls, which are of discrete nature and often involve time delays, and of the electromagnetic properties of power systems assets, such as the distributed nature of transmission lines and cables, entail a high level of complexity and very high model order [3–6]. In addition, the disperse nature of RES, as opposed to large-scale centralized power plants based on synchronous generators (SG), requires more modular stability analysis methods which can handle a selective range of dynamic phenomena, different topologies and subsystem aggregation depending on the scope of study. Furthermore, original equipment manufacturers of RES power plants and HVDC stations generally provide black-box models to preserve their intellectual property rights [7,8]. These detailed models, which might not have an available analytical counterpart, are used in Electromagnetic Transient (EMT) programs such as PSCAD and EMTP-RV to evaluate their dynamic performance via time-domain simulations. However, performing root-cause analysis of small-signal interactions via time-consuming EMT simulations is neither efficient nor always possible. Contrary to SS models, frequency-domain (FD) models can more accurately describe distributed parameter transmission assets and black-box converter controls involving time-delays [9,10]. Additionally, FD analysis can be performed at different electrical nodes, allowing for modularity in how components are grouped together [11–13]. Moreover, specific dynamic phenomena can be studied by just selecting the frequency range of interest, e.g. subsynchronous torsional interactions. In addition, the participation factors of specific components on the oscillatory modes can be captured by FD analysis [14–16]. Therefore, FD methods appear as a scalable and proven alternative to the SS approach, unveiling insights otherwise inaccessible via time-domain simulations. Although FD analysis of power systems is well documented and it has been used successfully in actual engineering projects [13,17–21], currently there is not a standardized approach for FD characterization of EMT models. Contrary to the existing harmonic impedance calculations in commercial EMT packages, such as DIgSILENT PowerFactory’s Frequency Sweep Calculation, which do not consider the dynamic impact of PE, electrical machines and controls, the admittance and impedance matrices for small-signal analysis need to precisely capture those dynamic characteristics.

This paper fills this gap by presenting a novel EMT-based system identification methodology for AC, DC and hybrid AC/DC systems implemented in the open-source Z-tool$^1$. Moreover, simplifications allowing for a more efficient characterization are introduced and their accuracy discussed. Several study cases demonstrate the efficacy of the Z-tool package to seamlessly measure any FD admittance and carry-out stability analysis. Overcoming the shortcomings of other implementations, such as limitation to single-terminal analysis and overlooking of AC/DC couplings [22–26], the Z-tool is capable of fully characterizing any AC and/or DC multi-terminal system, including the 3×3 AC/DC admittance of HVD